---
title: "Interpretation OF EU Guidelines And Recommendations Boe And Pra Approach Sop April 2019"
source: ""
---

# Interpretation OF EU Guidelines And Recommendations Boe And Pra Approach Sop April 2019

April 2019  (Finalising February 2019)  Interpretation of EU Guidelines and  Recommendations: Bank of England and PRA  approach after the UK’s withdrawal from  the EU  Bank of England and   PRA   Statement   of Policy This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Statement of Policy  Interpretation   of EU Guidelines  and Recommendations: Bank of  England and PRA approach after  the UK’s withdrawal from the EU  April 2019  (Finalising February 2019)  © Bank   of England   2019  Bank of England   | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Contents  Introduction   1  Bank and PRA expectations for firms and FMIs   1  Key onshoring changes relevant to the interpretation of non - binding EU materials   2  Appendices   4 This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Introduction  1.1   This joint Bank of England (Bank) and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Statement of  Policy (SoP) sets out the Bank’s and PRA’s approach to EU Guidelines and Recommendations in  light of the UK’s withdrawal   from the European Union (EU).  1.2   This SoP is relevant to all PRA - regulated firms,   investment   firms in scope of the UK  resolution regime   and all Bank - regulated financial market infrastructure providers (FMIs)  operating, or intending to operate, in the UK.  1.3   HM   Treasury has set out its intention to use powers under the   European Union  (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (the ‘Act’) to   ensure that the UK would continue to have a functioning  financial services regulatory regime regardless of the outcome of negotiations with the E U. Its  approach is to ensure that EU - derived laws and rules that are currently in place in the UK will  continue to apply at the point of exit to the extent that they remain operable in a UK regime.  Changes will only be made to those laws or rules that woul d otherwise not operate  appropriately. This will provide continuity and certainty for firms and FMIs as the UK leaves the  EU.  1.4   The European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) have powers to issue Guidelines and  Recommendations. European regulators, PRA - regulated firms, and FMIs are currently under an  obligation to ‘make every effort to comply’ with them. National authorities have the   option of  not complying, but must inform the relevant ESA of this, stating their reasons. There is  currently no exhaustive list of Guidelines and Recommendations maintained by the ESAs but  they are generally available on the relevant authority’s website.  1.5   In addition, the ESAs produce other non - legislative material. This includes publishing Q&As  to facilitate common understanding of EU regulatory provisions. ESA Q&As have no binding  force. The Bank considers that ESA Q&As may continue to be relevant and tha t the Bank may  have regard to these as appropriate.  1.6   The Bank and/or PRA may issue further statements in relation to this topic, including in  relation to any EU materials issued after the publication of this statement.  Bank and PRA expectations for firms a nd FMIs  2.1   Guidelines and Recommendations are not saved by the Act and HM Treasury has stated  that it intends to delete the obligation to make every effort to comply with them. 1   However,  the Bank and PRA expect firms and FMIs to continue to make every effort   to comply with EU  Guidelines and Recommendations to the extent that they remain relevant when the UK leaves  the EU. Firms and FMIs that become authorised or recognised to continue to provide services  in the UK on or after exit day (including firms and FMIs   that previously provided rights   services  in the UK via EU rights, such as passporting) will become subject to these expectations.  2.2   Appendices 1 to 3 contain lists of Guidelines that are currently complied with in the UK.  The Bank and PRA expect firms and F MIs to continue to comply with these after exit day to the  extent that they are addressed directly to firms and FMIs and remain relevant. Where aspects  1   ‘ Regulations relating to the European Supervisory Authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board ’, October 2018:  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/regulations - relating - to - the - european - supervisory - authorities - and - the -  european - systemic - risk - board/regulations - relating - to - the - european - supervisory - authorities - and - the - european - systemic - risk -  board . This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

of Guidelines and Recommendations are addressed to competent authorities, the Bank and  PRA expect firms   and FMIs to continue to comply with any associated rules or expectations  produced by the Bank or PRA that implement those Guidelines. The lists in Appendices 1 to 3  are not exhaustive. For example, Guidelines that were made by the predecessor committees 2  t o the ESAs are not included on this list but firms and FMIs should continue, where relevant, to  comply with them, unless they have been revoked or superseded by later Guidelines or by  other legislation.  2.3   The UK authorities have previously communicated that   they have not complied with the  Guidelines set out in Appendix 4. The Bank and the PRA do not expect firms and FMIs to  comply with these Guidelines.  2.4   The Bank and the PRA do not propose to reproduce and make amendments to the content  of individual Guidelin es and Recommendations issued by the EU ahead of exit. However, if  they remain relevant, firms and FMIs should interpret them in light of the UK’s withdrawal  from the EU and onshoring changes that are being made to ensure that the UK regulatory  framework o perates appropriately. Firms and FMIs should also interpret the Guidelines and  Recommendations in light of the use of any relevant transitional relief.  2.5   Changes to existing EU Guidelines and Recommendations, and new Guidelines and  Recommendations made by EU   authorities, will not automatically apply when the UK leaves  the EU. The Bank and PRA will consider their approach to such developments   and other non -  legislative EU material   and may   issue further statements in relation to   them.  Key onshoring changes   relevant to the interpretation of non - binding  EU materials  3.1   Below is a non - exhaustive list of onshoring changes that are proposed to be made by  Government under the Act, which are relevant to firms’ and FMIs’ interpretation of non -  binding EU materials. Howe ver, any transitional relief granted by the Bank or PRA may affect  the time that some of these changes take effect.     EEA firms, FMIs and funds that were able to provide services into the UK through the use  of passporting will need to seek authorisation or   recognition to continue to be able to do  so after exit. Therefore, any reference to passporting or processes associated with  passporting is redundant. However, HM Treasury has also brought forward legislation that  will allow EEA firms, FMIs, and funds to c ontinue their activities in the UK for a limited  period after withdrawal. References to third country firms and FMIs should be interpreted  to include firms and FMIs that have temporary permission or recognition, as appropriate.     Roles and responsibilities   carried out by EU authorities are being reallocated to the most  appropriate UK authority, to the extent that they remain relevant when the UK has left  the EU. For example, HM Treasury has transferred the responsibility for central  counterparty (CCP) recogn ition to the Bank of England, and is proposing to transfer the  European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) function of declaring an  ‘exceptional adverse situation’ to the PRA. Some EU roles that exist to support the EU  single market will   be deleted. Firms and FMIs should interpret references to EU functions  with reference to the new UK authority taking on that function. References to functions  that are being deleted in Government onshoring legislation can be ignored.  2   The Committees of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS), European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors  (CEIOPS), and European Securities Regulators (CESR). This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

   Detailed obligations   for UK regulators to share information and co - operate with EU  regulators will no longer be maintained. UK regulators will, however, be able to rely on  general statutory provisions that support supervisory co - operation with third country  authorities. Firms   and FMIs should therefore interpret detailed obligations on the Bank  and PRA to share information and co - operate with EU regulators as redundant but note  that the Bank and PRA will continue to co - operate with international authorities and  regulators, incl uding EU authorities, in pursuit of their statutory objectives.     The treatment of EEA firms and assets for the purposes of capital and liquidity  requirements will, in most cases, be aligned with the treatment of third country firms and  assets. Therefore, f irms should interpret any Guidelines or Recommendations providing  for preferential treatment of EEA assets in light of that approach.     Where capital or liquidity consolidation was only required at the EEA level previously, this  will be required at the UK le vel after exit day. For insurance groups, firm - specific  consolidation waivers remain available. Therefore, firms should interpret any reference to  the EEA consolidated group as if it was to the UK consolidated group. This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Appendices  1   Non - exhaustive list of EIOPA Guidelines that are complied with in the UK  2   Non - exhaustive list of EBA Guidelines and Recommendations that are complied with  in the UK  3   Non - exhaustive list of ESMA Guidelines that are complied with in the UK, excluding  thos e that apply only to FCA - regulated firms  4   Individual Guidelines where explanation has been provided that the UK does not  intend to comply This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Appendix 1: Non - exhaustive   list of EIOPA Guidelines that are complied  with in the UK  Solvency II     Guidelines on the supervision of branches of third - country insurance undertakings     Guidelines on Financial Stability Reporting     Guidelines on the Extension of the Recovery Period     Guidelin es on the exchange of information within colleges     Guidelines on the implementation of the long - term guarantee measures     Guidelines for determining the market shares for reporting     Guidelines on reporting and public disclosure     Guidelines on the recognition   and valuation of assets and liabilities other than technical  provisions     Guidelines on System of Governance     Guidelines on Own Risk Solvency Assessment     Guidelines on ancillary own funds     Guidelines on application of outwards reinsurance     Guidelines on the appl ication of life underwriting risk module     Guidelines on basis risk     Guidelines on classification of own funds     Guidelines on contract boundaries     Guidelines on group solvency     Guidelines on health catastrophe risk sub - module     Guidelines on look - through approach     Guidelines on operational functioning of colleges     Guidelines on ring - fenced funds     Guidelines on supervisory review process     Guidelines on the loss - absorbing capacity of technical provisions and deferred taxes This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

   Guidelines on the methodology for equivalence as sessments by national supervisory  authorities under Solvency II     Guidelines on the treatment of market and counterparty risk exposures in the standard  formula     Guidelines on the use of internal models     Guidelines on the treatment of related undertakings, incl uding participations     Guidelines on undertaking - specific parameters     Guidelines on valuation of technical provisions This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Appendix 2: Non - exhaustive list of EBA Guidelines and  Recommendations that are complied with in the UK  Bank Recovery and Resolution   Directive (BRRD)     Guidelines on the rate of conversion of debt to equity in bail - in     Guidelines on the treatment of shareholders in bail - in     Guidelines on treatment of liabilities in bail - in     Guidelines on how information should be provided under the BRRD     Guid elines on Business Reorganisation Plans     Guidelines specifying the various conditions for the provision of group financial support     Guidelines on simplified obligations     Guidelines on the sale of business tool     Guidelines on the asset separation tool     Guideline s on necessary services     Guidelines on failing or likely to fail     Guidelines on early intervention triggers     Guidelines on recovery plans indicators     Guidelines on measures to reduce or remove impediments to resolvability     Guidelines on the types of tests, revi ews or exercises that may lead to support measures     Guidelines on the range of scenarios to be used in recovery plans  Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV)     Guidelines on internal governance (revised)     Recommendation on the equivalence of confidentiality   regimes     Guidelines on criteria to assess other systemically important institutions (O - SIIs)     Guidelines on the data collection exercise regarding high earners     Guidelines on the remuneration benchmarking exercise     Guidelines on the applicable notional discou nt rate for variable remuneration This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

   Recommendations on the coverage of entities in a group recovery plan     Joint ESMA and EBA Guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of members of the  management body     Guidelines on common procedures and methodology for   Supervisory review and  Evaluation Process (SREP)     Guidelines on the management of interest rate risk arising from non - trading activities  (IRRBB)  Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR)     Guidelines on disclosure requirements under Part Eight of Regulation (EU)     Guidelines on the LCR disclosure     Guidelines on corrections to modified duration for debt instruments     Guidelines on implicit support for securitisation transactions     Guidelines on limits on exposures to shadow banking     Guidelines on materiality, proprietary a nd confidentiality and on disclosure frequency     Guidelines on significant risk transfer (SRT) for securitisation transactions     Guidelines on disclosure of encumbered and unencumbered assets     Guidelines on Connected Clients  Financial Conglomerates Directive (F ICOD)     Joint Guidelines on the convergence of supervisory practices relating to the consistency of  supervisory coordination arrangements for financial conglomerates  EBA Regulation Article 16     Guidelines on supervision of significant branches     Recommendations   on outsourcing to cloud service providers     Guidelines on ICT Risk Assessment under the SREP     Guidelines on credit risk management practices and accounting for expected credit losses     Guidelines on ICAAP and ILAAP information     Guidelines on communication betwe en competent authorities and auditors     Guidelines on harmonised definitions and templates for funding plans of credit  institutions This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

   Recommendation on the use of Legal Entity Identifier (LEI)     Guidelines on institutions' stress testing     Guidelines on product ov ersight and governance arrangements for retail banking products  IFRS 9     Guidelines on disclosure requirements of IFRS 9 transitional arrangements  Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive (DGSD)     Guidelines on stress tests of deposit guarantee schemes     Guidelines on   cooperation agreements between deposit guarantee schemes     Guidelines on methods for calculating contributions to Deposit Guarantee Schemes  (DGSs)     Guidelines on payment commitments This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Appendix 3: Non - exhaustive list of ESMA Guidelines that are complied  with   in the UK, excluding those that apply only to FCA - regulated firms  Central Securities Depositories Regulation (CSDR)     Guidelines on participant default rules and procedures under CSDR     Guidelines on the Process for the Calculation of the Indicators to Determ ine the  Substantial Importance of a CSD for a Host Member State     Guidelines on the Process for the Calculation of the Indicators to Determine the Most  Relevant Currencies in which Settlement Takes Place     Guidelines on Internalised Settlement Reporting under   Article 9 of CSDR     Guidelines on Cooperation between Authorities under articles 17 and 23 of CSDR     Guidelines on Access by a CSD to the Transaction Feeds of a CCP or of a Trading Venue  under CSDR  European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR)     Guidelines an d Recommendations regarding written agreements between members of  CCP colleges     Guidelines and Recommendations regarding the implementation of the CPSS - IOSCO  Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures in respect of Central Counterparties     Guidelines and   Recommendations for establishing consistent, efficient and effective  assessments of interoperability arrangements     Guidelines on CCP conflicts of interest management     Guidelines on Anti - procyclicality Margin Measures for Central Counterparties  Markets in Fi nancial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II)     Joint ESMA and EBA guidelines on the assessment of suitability of members of the  management body and key function holders     Guidelines on certain aspects of the MiFID II suitability requirements This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.

Appendix 4: Individual Guidelines where explanation has been provided  that the UK does not intend to comply  Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRDIV)     Guidelines on sound remuneration policies     Guidelines for the identification of global systemically importa nt institutions (G - SIIs)  Prudential Assessment of Financial Sector Acquisitions Directive 3     Joint Guidelines for the prudential assessment of acquisitions of qualifying holdings  3   2007/44/EC . This document applies from the end of the transition period. Consequential updates may be required to account for the transition period. These updates will be made before the end of the transition period.


