---
title: "Permissions For Transitional Measures November 2024 Update"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/statement-of-policy/2024/permissions-for-transitional-measures-november-2024-update.pdf"
---

# Permissions For Transitional Measures November 2024 Update

Permissions   for   transitional   measures  on   technical   provisions   and   risk - free  interest rates  Statement   of   policy   2/24  November   2024   (Updating   February   2024)



Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority  Permissions for transitional measures on  technical   provisions   and   risk - free   interest  rates  Statement   of   policy  November   2024   (updating   February   2024)  ©   Bank   of   England   2024  Prudential   Regulation   Authority   |   20   Moorgate   |   London   EC2R   6DA

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   1  Contents  Contents   1  1:   Introduction   2  2:   Approach   to   TMTP   and   TMIR   permissions   4  New   TMTP   permissions   4  Approach   and   process   for   applications   for   TMTP   and   TMIR   permissions   4  Initial   calculation   for   new   TMTP   firms   5  Revoking   TMTP   permissions   6  Varying   or   revoking   TMIR   permissions   6  3:   Approach   to   TMTP   rule   modifications   7  Amortisation   of   TMTP   during   the   remaining   transitional   period   7  Insurance   business   transfers   and   reinsurance   transactions   7  4:   Firms   with   permission   to   use   the   legacy   approach   9  5:   Criteria   for   legacy   approach   firms   11  Assessing   the   criteria   11  Annex   –   SoP   updates   13  2024   13

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   2  1:   Introduction  1.1   This   statement   of   policy   (SoP)   sets   out   the   Prudential   Regulation   Authority’s   (PRA)  approach to granting regulatory permissions in relation to the transitional measure on  technical provisions (TMTP) and the transitional measure on the risk - free interest rate  (TMIR).  1.2   The statement is relevant   to all UK Solvency II firms,   the Society   of Lloyd’s, its   members  and   managing   agents,   referred   to   collectively   as   ‘firms’.   It   is   particularly   relevant   to   firms   with  permission to apply the TMTP and TMIR, or those that may be acquiring business that  benefits from TMTP.  1.3   This SoP should be read in conjunction with the Transitional Measures on Technical  Provisions Part of the PRA Rulebook, Chapters 10 and 12 of the Transitional Measures Part  of   the   PRA   Rulebook,   any   other   rules   relevant   to   UK   Solvency   II   firms,   supervisory   statement  (SS) 17/15   –   Solvency II: Transitional measures on risk - free interest rates and technical  provisions 1 , and the PRA’s insurance approach document. 2  1.4   Firms with permission to apply the TMTP must calculate the transitional   measure using  the   methodology   specified   in   the   Transitional   Measures   on   Technical   Provisions   (the   TMTP  method). Furthermore, where the PRA has varied a firm’s permission to modify the  calculation methodology rules so that it can calculate the TMTP using the methodology  applied at the date of its last TMTP recalculation prior to 31 December 2024 (the legacy  approach), that firm is subject to the additional requirements set out in the written notice to  the firm, which are set out in this SoP.  1.5   This   SoP   also   sets   out   the   PRA’s   approach   to   considering   when   it   would:  •   grant   new   permissions   for   firms   to   apply   the   TMTP   or   TMIR;  •   revoke   TMTP   or   TMIR   permissions;  •   vary   firm’s   TMIR   permissions;   and  •   modify   certain   TMTP   rules,   including   by   way   of   a   variation   of   a   firm’s   TMTP  permission.  1.6   Under   relevant   Financial   Services   and   Markets   Act   (FSMA)   powers,   the   PRA   may,   on   the  application of or with the consent of a firm, give permission to enable a firm to modify the  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/solvency2 - transitional -  measures - on - risk - free - interest - rates - and - technical - provisions - ss  2   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/pras - approach - to - supervision - of - the -  banking - and - insurance - sectors .

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   3  PRA’s rules on the calculation of the technical provisions for the purpose of allowing the firm  to apply TMTP relief in accordance with the Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions  Part of the Rulebook and, in the circumstances   set out in this SoP, waive or modify how  those   rules   apply   to   a   firm.   FSMA   powers   also   permit   the   PRA   to   vary,   to   modify,   or   reverse   a  modification   of,   the   relevant   rules,   or   remove   an   existing   permission   and   this   SoP   sets   out   the  circumstances in which the PRA would consider such changes.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   4  2:   Approach   to   TMTP   and   TMIR   permissions  New   TMTP   permissions  2.1   The PRA considers that all firms that require TMTP for transitioning their balance sheet  from   Solvency   I   to   Solvency   II   should   have   now   sought   permission   for   TMTP.   Therefore,   the  PRA generally will not consider new applications for TMTP permission.  2.2   The   only   circumstance   in   which   the   PRA   expects   to   consider   granting   a   firm   a   new   TMTP  permission is if that firm is acquiring a book of business (ie through an insurance business  transfer or 100% reinsurance transaction) that already benefits from TMTP. In these  instances, a new TMTP permission would be restricted to such acquired business only as  required by Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions 2.4. 3   A firm with a new TMTP  permission   (a   ‘new   TMTP firm’)   will   be   required   to   calculate   TMTP   using   the TMTP   method  from the date at which the business is acquired. The PRA does not expect to exercise its  discretion to allow a new TMTP firm to use the legacy approach.  Approach   and   process   for   applications   for   TMTP   and   TMIR  permissions  2.2   A The PRA will consider applications for the TMIR with respect to admissible insurance  and   reinsurance   obligations. 4   The   PRA   will   approve   an   application   to   use   TMIR   if   the   firm   has  calculated TMIR in accordance with Transitional Measures 10.2 - 10.5.  2.3   For   applications   for   new   permissions   on   TMTP or   TMIR   (collectively   known   as  ‘transitional measures’), the considerations below apply.  2.4   For planning purposes, the PRA asks firms to notify their usual supervisory contacts at  the   earliest   opportunity   if   they   intend   to   make   an   application. When   submitting   an   application  for these transitional measures, firms should inform the PRA of any other approvals or  permissions for which they have applied. The PRA encourages firms to also give details of  any other approvals or permissions for which they intend to apply. Where a firm has applied  for any other approvals or permissions at the same time as applying for a transitional  measure, the PRA may ask it to provide sensitivity tests showing the impact on the  transitional measure if the other applications were to be rejected.  3   Transitional Measure on Technical Provision 2.4 requires a firm to only apply TMTP to technical provisions  on such of its insurance and reinsurance obligations that are the firm’s qualifying and reinsurance  obligations   on   31   December   2024   or   are   such   obligations   assumed   by   the   firm after   31   December   2024   as   a  result   of   a   transfer   event.  4   Transitional   Measures   1.2.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   5  2.5   For the permission process on the transitional measures, once the PRA has determined  the   outcome   of   the   application,   it   will   provide   the   firm   with   written   notice   of   that   determination.  2.6   If   further   information   is   required   from   the   firm   during   the   review,   the   PRA   will   request   this  information in writing.  Initial   calculation   for   new   TMTP   firms  2.7   A firm applying for a TMTP permission following a transfer event (‘new TMTP firm’)  should include as part of their application its proposed values for ‘Z A ’ ‘Z B ’, and ‘C 0 ’ for use in  the TMTP method, and details of its proposed designation of business to be used in the  calculation   of   the   dynamic   portion .   The   PRA   may   reject   an   application   if   it   is   not   satisfied   with  a new TMTP firm’s proposed values or designation of dynamic business. In order for a new  TMTP firm to calculate ‘A r ’, ‘B r ’ and ‘C r ’ for use in the TMTP method, the PRA expects:  •   The transferor to provide the new TMTP firm with the following values of the  ‘transferred’   TMTP 5   as   set   out   in   Transitional   Measure   on   Technical   Provisions 5.1:  ‘A r ’, ‘B r ’ and ‘C 0 ’.  •   The   new   TMTP   firm   should   consider   whether   to   elect   to   revise   the   transferor’s  designation of business used to calculate the dynamic portion. This should include a  consideration of whether all such business is also Matching Adjustment (MA) - eligible  for   the   new   TMTP   firm,   as   the   new   TMTP   firm   can   only   designate   business   that   is   MA -  eligible at the point of application for the purpose of calculating the dynamic portion.  •   In order to calculate ‘A r ’   for use in the TMTP method,   the new TMTP firm should first  calculate   ‘Z A ’   in   accordance   with   Transitional   Measure   on   Technical   Provisions   4.2(4)  by using the transferor’s aforementioned calculations for the value of ‘A r ’ as ‘A 0 ’ and  the new TMTP firm’s   own value for ‘D 0 ’. The   new TMTP firm can then use its derived  Z A   to calculate ‘A r ’   as set out in Transitional Measure on Technical Provisions 5.1 for  use in the TMTP method.  •   If   the   new   TMTP   firm   does   not   revise   the   dynamic   business,   then   in   order   to   calculate  B r   for use in the TMTP method, it should first calculate ‘Z B ’ in accordance with  Transitional Measure on Technical Provisions 4.2 (5) by using the transferor’s  aforementioned calculations for the value of ‘B r ’ as ‘B 0 ’, and the firm’s own values for  ‘E 0 ’. 6   The new TMTP firm can then use its derived ‘Z B ’ to calculate B r   as set out in  Transitional   Measure   on   Technical   Provisions   5.1   for   use   in   the   TMTP   method.  •   If   the   new   TMTP   firm   does   revise   the   dynamic   business,   then   in   order   to   calculate ‘B r ’  for use in the TMTP method, it should first adjust the transferor’s ‘B r ’ value  5   The   PRA   expects   firms   to   use   the   value   of   the   TMTP   that   relates   to   the   technical   provisions   of   the  transferred business immediately prior to the effective date of the transfer event.  6   The   firm   should   calculate   the   technical   provisions   on   the   transferred   business   for   which   the   transferor   had  TMTP   permission   as   at   the   effective   date   in   order   to   calculate   the   values   for   ‘D 0 ’   and   ‘E 0 ’.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   6  proportionally   to   reflect   the   revised   split   of   BEL   between   the   dynamic   and   non - dynamic  portions   of TMTP.   In   order to calculate ‘Z B ’   in   accordance with   Transitional   Measure   on  Technical Provisions 4.2(5), the new TMTP firm should   use its   own value   of ‘E 0 ’ based  on the revised dynamic business and the adjusted ‘B r ’   value as ‘B 0 ’. The new TMTP  firm can then use its derived ‘Z B ’ to calculate B r   for   use in the TMTP method.  •   If the new TMTP firm does not revise the dynamic business, then it should use the  value for ‘C 0 ’ as calculated by the transferor, to calculate ‘C r ’ for use in the TMTP  method. If the new TMTP firm does revise the dynamic business then, in order to  calculate ‘C r ’, the new TMTP firm should adjust the transferor’s ‘C 0 ’ value  proportionally   to   reflect   the   revised   split   of   BEL   between   the   dynamic   and   non - dynamic  portions of TMTP. This adjusted C 0   can then be used to calculate ‘C r ’ for use in the  TMTP method.  2.8   The   PRA   expects   that   the   new   TMTP   firm   should   ensure   that   the   initial   TMTP   calculation  is no greater than the amount of TMTP that applied to the acquired business immediately  prior to the effective date. Where a new TMTP firm has elected to revise the dynamic  business, the PRA expects this can be achieved either by   adjusting the value for ‘Z B ’ or ‘C 0 ’.  A new TMTP firm should provide the PRA with details of the initial calculation and the  designation of dynamic business as part of the application process.  Revoking   TMTP   permissions  2.9   The   PRA   may   revoke   a   firm’s   TMTP   permission   if   it   ceases   to   comply   with   the   applicable  requirements and fails to restore compliance with the relevant requirements in a timely and  cooperative manner. The PRA may also revoke a firm’s TMTP permission if a report  submitted under Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions 7.4 shows that it is  unrealistic to expect compliance with the solvency capital requirement (SCR) by 2032.  Varying   or   revoking   TMIR   permissions  2.9A   A   firm   with   a   TMIR   permission   may   apply   to   the   PRA   to   vary   that   permission.  2.9B   The   PRA   will   vary   the   firm’s   TMIR   permission   if   the   calculation   of   TMIR   complies   with  Transitional Measures 10.2 - 10.5 were the permission to be varied.  2.9C The PRA will revoke a firm’s TMIR permission if it ceases to comply with Transitional  Measures   10.2 - 10.5.   The   PRA   will   also   revoke   a   firm’s   TMIR   permission   if   a   report   submitted  under Transitional Measures 12.4 shows that it is unrealistic to expect compliance with the  SCR by 2032.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   7  3:   Approach   to   TMTP   rule   modifications  3.1   Firms   may   apply   to   the   PRA for   permission   to   apply TMTP   relief,   with   or   without   relevant  modifications to rules in the Transitional Measure on Technical Provisions Part of the  Rulebook, as set out in this SoP. The PRA will additionally consider applications to make  subsequent   modifications,   including   by   way   of   a   variation   of   a   firm’s   TMTP   permission on   an  ongoing basis in the areas set out in this SoP. From 31 December 2024, the PRA will not  grant further permissions to use the legacy approach (described further in section 4).  Amortisation   of   TMTP   during   the   remaining   transitional   period  3.2   The amortisation approach in Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions 5.2 may be  inappropriate for some TMTP method firms due to the run - off pattern of their business. The  PRA will consider applications from such firms to waive or modify the rule and instead be  required to adopt their proposed alternative amortisation approach. The PRA will consider  this in instances where the application of the rule could result in an adverse impact on a  firm’s solvency position (measured as the impact on a firm’s solvency coverage ratio of five  percentage   points   or   more).   The   PRA   expects   to   only   waive   or   modify   this   element   where   the  firm proposes an alternative amortisation approach which still achieves a consistent  amortisation to zero by 1 January 2032. Furthermore, firms would be expected by paragraph  5.8A   of   SS17/15   to   document   the   new   amortisation   approach   in   their   own   risk   and   solvency  assessment (ORSA).  Insurance   business   transfers   and   reinsurance   transactions  3.3   TMTP method firms must update Z A , Z B,   and C 0   used in the Transitional Measures on  Technical   Provisions   5   in   accordance   with   Transitional   Measures   on   Technical   Provisions   6.  This update should   reflect the change in risk profile after specific insurance business  transfers   and   reinsurance contracts,   and any   changes   firms elect to   make to business   used  to calculate the dynamic portion. The increase or decrease in TMTP as a result of any  transfer   event cannot   be greater than   the   TMTP that would have   been applied   by transferor  or cedant to the obligations covered by the transfer event immediately prior to the effective  date   of   the   transfer   events. 7   However,   the   PRA   will   consider   applications   to waive   or   modify  Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions 6.2, if firms can provide justification for the  transfer   event, including revisions to the business used to calculate the dynamic portion to  result in an increase or decrease in the amount of aggregate TMTP across the transferee  and   transferor.   One   circumstance   where   the   PRA   may   consider   a waiver   or   modification   to  7   Transitional   Measures   on   Technical   Provisions   6.2.   See   further   details   in   SS17/15.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   8  how   Z A   is   updated is   where   the   transfer   event   results   in   a   change   in   risk   profile   that   alters   the  level of diversification benefit assumed within the calculation of the risk margin.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   9  4:   Firms   with   permission   to   use   the   legacy  approach  4.1   Where a firm’s TMTP permission allows it to continue to calculate its TMTP under the  legacy   approach   (a   ‘legacy   approach   firm’),   it   is   expected   by   SS17/15   to   demonstrate   to   the  PRA on an annual basis that it continues to meet the criteria relevant to this variation, as  detailed in chapter 5 of this SoP.  4.2   A summary of the requirements that the PRA expects to impose on legacy approach  firms is included below. The requirements are detailed in the written notice issued by the  PRA   to   the   firm,   so   the   wording   may   differ   from   below.   The   PRA   expects   to   require   a   legacy  approach firm to:  •   calculate   the   TMTP   at   each   reporting   period, 8   this   does   not   require regulatory  approval;  •   apply   the   methodologies   for   calculating   Solvency   I   Pillar   2   technical   provisions   that  they   were   using   as   at the   date   of   their   last   TMTP   recalculation   prior   to   31   December  2024 ;  •   not   make   any   further   changes   or   simplifications   to   the   aforementioned   methodologies;  •   only   make   changes   to   Solvency   I   Pillar   2   best   estimate   assumptions to   reflect   changes  in market conditions and/or demographic assumptions, and not make any other  changes to Solvency I Pillar 2 best estimate assumptions;  •   notwithstanding   the   requirements   for   no   assumption   or   methodology   changes,   where   it  has permission for the matching adjustment (‘MA’) and invests in an asset with new  MA - eligible features which it did not hold prior to 2016, assume that the new asset  class carries the same level of Solvency I illiquidity premium benefit as the rest of the  relevant asset portfolio;  •   limit   the   technical   provisions   to   which   the   TMTP   permission   relates to   the   technical  provisions that the firm had a TMTP permission for on 31 December 2024; and  •   apply an amortisation approach that runs off TMTP in a consistent manner to be zero  by 1 January 2032, ie so that the amortisation applied each year does not lead to a  ‘cliff - edge   effect’   where   larger   decreases   are   required   in   the   years   immediately   prior   to  2032.  4.3   The   PRA   will   also   not   conduct   further   reviews   of a   firm’s   Individual   Capital   Guidance.  8   This   refers   to   the   reporting periods in   which   the   firm   is   required   to   report   its   TMTP   to   the   PRA in   accordance  with the Reporting Part of the PRA Rulebook, subject to any waivers.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   10  4.4   In   the   case   of   transfer   events   that   involve   acquiring   a   business   that   is   subject   to   TMTP,   a  legacy   approach firm   may wish   to apply TMTP to the   acquired business. In this situation,   the  PRA would permit legacy approach firms to apply for a modification of its requirements in  order to extend the scope of its TMTP permission to cover the acquired business, and if  necessary to update their Solvency I methodologies to accept the acquired business. The  PRA will only consider such applications if the firm can demonstrate that the modifications  will result in an increase in TMTP that is   no greater than the amount   of TMTP that applied to  the relevant insurance and reinsurance obligations covered by any transfer event  immediately prior to the effective date of the transfer event. Firms should submit as part of  their application, a proposal   on how the legacy approach method used by   the firm should be  modified to ensure that no additional TMTP is created due to differences in how the  transferor and the firm calculate their technical provisions. In granting the waiver or  modification to allow the firm to apply TMTP to the acquired business, the PRA expects to  also modify the legacy approach method the firm is required to use to calculate TMTP to  include this proposed change. Firms should make an application no later than two months  after the effective date of any transfer event.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   11  5:   Criteria   for   legacy   approach   firms  5.1   When   it   considered   whether   to   vary   TMTP   permissions   to   enable   firms   to   use   the   legacy  approach,   the   PRA   assessed if   calculating   the   TMTP   using   the TMTP method   would   lead   to  a material financial impact under a range of economic scenarios compared with calculating  the TMTP using the legacy approach for a firm.  5.2   The   PRA   also   considered   evidence   that   using   the TMTP   method   rather   than the   legacy  approach would:  (i)   carry   a   disproportionately   high   cost   of   compliance   for   the   firm;   or  (ii)   significantly   disrupt   the   firm’s   management   practices.  Assessing   the   criteria  5.3   With respect to paragraph 5.1, the PRA generally considered that the TMTP calculated  under   the   TMTP   method   was   materially   different   from   the   legacy   approach   if   a   comparison   of  the two different approaches under a range of forward - looking economic scenarios could  result in a difference in a firm’s solvency coverage ratio of five percentage points or more.  The PRA considered such a comparison to be reasonable where the assessment, on a  forward - looking basis:  (i)   included a comparison of the two different approaches over an appropriate time  horizon,   consistent   with   the scenarios   in   the   firm’s   medium   term   capital   management   plan;  (ii)   included   a   separate   consideration   of stress   conditions,   which   are   consistent   with   the  reporting of sensitivities set out in SS7/17   –   Solvency II: Data collection of market risk  sensitivities 9 ; and  (iii)   took   account   of   the   expected   run - off   of   the   business   eligible   for   TMTP,   and   the  resulting impact on the amount of TMTP.  5.4   As   noted   in   4.2C   of   SS17/15   –   Solvency   II:   transitional   measures   on   risk - free   interest  rates and technical provisions 10 , the PRA expects that legacy approach firms provide  9   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2017/solvency - 2 - data - collection -  of - market - risk - sensitivities - ss  10   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/solvency2 - transitional -  measures - on - risk - free - interest - rates - and - technical - provisions - ss

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   12  evidence   that   they   continue   to   meet   the   criteria   set   out   in 5.1 - 5.3 on   an   annual   basis   as   part  of their ORSA.  5.5   If a firm considers that it no longer meets the criteria set out in this SoP it should notify  the   PRA   of   this   within   three   months.   If   a   firm   no   longer   wishes   to   use   the legacy   approach,   it  should also notify the   PRA of this. In these situations, the PRA will consider varying a firm’s  TMTP permission   so that it   must calculate TMTP using the TMTP method   for the remainder  of the transitional period. The PRA will consider all relevant factors when determining the  appropriate point at which a firm should begin using the TMTP method. The PRA would  expect   this   to   be no   later   than   12   months   from the   date on   which   the   firm initially   notified   the  PRA that the criteria in this section are no longer met or that it no longer wishes to use the  legacy approach.

Bank   of   England   |   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   Page   13  Annex   –   SoP   updates  This   annex   details   the   changes   that   have   been   made   to   this   SoP   following   its   initial  publication in 2024:  2024  November   2024  Following   publication   of policy   statement   (PS)   15/24   –   Review   of   Solvency   II:   Restatement   of  assimilated law 11 , this SoP was amended in the ways summarised below:  •   paragraph   1.3:   removal   of   cross - reference   to   assimilated   law;  •   paragraph   1.5:   addition   to   scope   of   this   SoP   to   cover   TMIR   permissions;  •   paragraph   2.2A:   addition   of   this   paragraph   to   capture   the   restatement   of   provisions  previously covering TMIR approvals in assimilated law;  •   paragraph   2.3:   minor   amendments   to   accommodate   addition   of   2.2A;  •   paragraph   2.4:   addition   of   text   covering   sensitivity   tests;   and  •   paragraphs   2.9A   to   2.9C:   addition   of   new   section   covering   varying   or   revoking   TMIR  permissions.  This   policy   is   effective   from   31   December   2024.  11   November   2024:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/november/review -  of - solvency - ii - restatement - of - assimilated - law - policy - statement .


