---
title: "Pillar 2 Liquidity Sop Update June 2019"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/statement-of-policy/2019/pillar-2-liquidity-sop-update-june-2019.pdf"
---

# Pillar 2 Liquidity Sop Update June 2019

Statement of Policy  Pillar 2 liquidity  June 2019  Updating February 2018 This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Statement   of Policy  Pillar 2 liquidity  June 2019  Updating February 2018  © Bank of England   2019  Prudential   Regulation Authority   |   20 Moorgate   |   London EC2R 6DA This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

C ontents  Introduction   1  Level of application of Pillar 2 guidance   1  Cashflow mismatch risk   2  Franchise viability: debt buyback, early termination of non - margined  de rivatives and prime brokerage and matched books   7  Intraday liquidity   11  Other liquidity risks   15  Annex: Updates to SoP ‘Pillar 2 liquidity’   18 This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   1  Introduction  1.1   This   statement of policy   (SoP)   is relevant to all UK banks, building societies and PRA -  designated investment firms , referred to collectively as ‘firms’ .     Chapter 2 details the PRA’s approach to the level of application of Pillar 2   liquidity  guidance .     Chapter 3 details the PRA’s approach   to assessing   cashflow mismatch risk.     Chapter 4 details the PRA’s approach to assessing franchise viability risks.     Chapter 5 details the PRA’s approach to assessing intraday liquidity risks.     Chapter 6 details the PRA’s approach to assessing other Pillar 2   liquidity risks.  1.1   The Pillar 2 framework covers risks not captured, or not fully captured, in Pillar 1.  1.2   In publishing its   approach to Pillar 2 liquidity (‘Pillar 2’), the PRA seeks to help firms  understand how it assesses liquidity risks, thereby encouragin g   them to develop better  approaches to reduce or manage these risks.  1.3   The PRA reminds firms that, in line with the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule, it is  incumbent on them to undertake their own assessment of liquidity risks, including Pillar 2  risks, and t o take appropriate measures to reduce or manage these risks. The PRA expects  firms to continue to assess their risks as they consider most appropriate. The PRA does not  expect firms to simply adopt the PRA’s methodologies.  1.4   The supervisor’s overall judgemen t about how the firm   approaches its liquidity risk  management will influence the supervisor’s decision on how conservative or specific to be in  providing individual guidance to firms.  1.5   The Pillar 2 approach applies in a way that is proportionate to each fir m’s business model  and to the risk that the firm poses to the PRA’s objectives. In particular, if a supervisor judges  the firm’s Pillar 2 risks to be relatively immaterial compared to its Pillar 1 risks, the supervisor  may choose not to apply Pillar 2 guid ance. If, having reviewed the firm’s Individual Liquidity  Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) document, a supervisor judges that the risks to the  PRA’s objectives from a particular firm are immaterial, the supervisor can also choose not to  review the firm   for Pillar 2 risks.   A supervisor’s assessment will involve consideration as to  whether any Pillar 2 measures would have a disproportionate impact on a particular type of  firm, including whether it results in a relatively greater burden on smaller firms.  1.6   If appropriate , supervisors may impose other guidance for risks not previously identified in  Pillar 1 or Pillar 2.  Level of application of Pillar 2 guidance  2.1   Pillar 2 guidance applies at individual and consolidated levels. In general, the level of  applicati on for setting guidance for a firm under Pillar 2 will be aligned to Pillar 1. Pillar 2  consolidated guidance will be calculated based on the sum of individual guidance, plus any  additional Pillar 2 risk identified as arising at the level of the consolidat ed group. The PRA may  consider some netting of solo Pillar 2 guidance to a limited extent, where appropriate. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   2  Cashflow mismatch risk  3.1   This chapter provides a definition of cashflow mismatch risk (CFMR) and then outlines the  PRA’s approach to assessing and c alibrating the risk under Pillar 2.  Definition of CFMR  3.2   CFMR is the risk that a firm has insufficient   liquidity from high quality liquid assets (HQLA)  and other liquidity inflows to cover liquidity outflows on a daily basis.  3.3   The Liquidity Coverage Requirem ent (LCR) is a measure of a firm’s cumulative liquid ity  position at the end of a 30   day period. It does not assess whether, if a firm experiences a  significant outflow on a given day of the LCR stress, the firm has sufficient inflows and cash, to  cover the   outflow on that day.  3.4   It is therefore possible that a firm meets its LCR, yet is not able to survive the stress  scenario captured in the LCR itself: a firm’s net cumulative outflow position in stress may  exceed av ailable liquidity before the 30   day mark.  3.5   T he PRA’s   CFMR framework focuses on the following sources of risk:  (a)   ‘Low point risk’: Under the LCR firms need to hold sufficient HQLA to cover their  cumulative liquidity needs over 30 calendar days. If a firm experiences a peak liquidity  need within the 30   day window that is greater than its requirement on day 30, the firm is  exposed to the additional net outflow (the difference between the peak and end - month  requirement). But it does not necessarily hold sufficient HQLA to cover these additional  outflows on   that day.  (b)   HQLA monetisation risks: Firms may not be able to monetise sufficient non - cash HQLA to  cover cumulative net outflows under the LCR stress on a daily basis. There are likely  limitations to the speed and scale with which cash can be raised in the   repo market or  through   outright   sales,   linked   to   market   depth,   the   number   of   a   firm’s   regular  counterparties, the firm’s individual turnover and incremental market access in stress, the  need to rollover short - term repo transactions and settlement times etc . Firms should also  consider the extent to which their ability to monetise HQLA through outright sale could be  adversely affected by the accounting classification, in particular where sale of the asset  would crystallise a loss that arises because of the di fference between the fair value at the  point of sale and the carry value in the firm’s accounts.  (c)   ‘Cliff risk’: The LCR focuses on a 30 calendar day horizon. Firms may ‘window - dress’ their  LCRs by pushing maturit y mismatches just beyond the 30   day horizon.  (d)   Foreign Exchange ( FX )   mismatch risks: Firms typically assume that currencies are fungible  given the depth of liquidity in the spot FX and FX swap markets, particularly in reserve  currencies. However, firms may not be able to access FX markets as normal in   times of  stress.  CFMR stress scenarios and tools  3.6   CFMR can be assessed under different stress scenarios and monitored over a range of  horizons. The PRA’s CFMR framework is composed of a set of stress scenarios and tools of  different severity and duration. T hese scenarios represent distinct lenses through which the  PRA assesses if firms are running excessive maturity mismatches or have not adequately  considered limits to monetisation. The ultimate goal of the framework is to: This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   3  (a)   ensure that, throughout the LCR   stress, firms have sufficient liquidity to cover their  liquidity needs on a daily basis; and  (b)   enable the PRA to monitor, with daily granularity, liquidity mismatches which will occur  during longer lasting and more severe stress events.  3.7   The stress scenarios   and tools described below are those which the PRA tests on an  ongoing basis for all firms.   The PRA systematically sets guidance on a consolidated currency  basis using the   granular LCR stress scenario.   Tables 1 and 2 at the end of this chapter detail, for  e ach stress scenario or tool, whether the PRA will systematically set guidance or monitor the  consolidated currency and/or single currency level, and whether the monetisation profile is  applied. This does not preclude the use of these or other stress scenar ios or tools to set  guidance, for example, in temporary and targeted ways based on tests of firms’ resilience to  specific, foreseeable, future stress events.  LCR and benchmark stresses  A.   G ranular LCR stress scenario (30   day horizon)  3.8   To assess ‘low - point’   risk under the stress scenario embedded in the LCR, the PRA  computes firms’ liquidity inflows and outflows throughout the LCR stress scenario, with daily  granularity. The LCR makes behavioural assumptions about the percentage of funding that will  be lost   (eg retail depos its, repos) during a forward 30   day period. On the asset side, the LCR  focuses on pro jected inflows over the same 30   day period and assigns rates according to how  likely the creditor is to demand an extension of funding (eg unsecured lendin g to non -  financials) or for the asset to roll - over (eg reverse repos).  3.9   To obtain projected daily liquidity flows under the LCR stress, the PRA applies the  prescribed LCR inflow or outflow rate to:  (a)   contractual cash flows that reach maturity during a forwar d   30   day horizon; and  (b)   claims and obligations without a contractual end date but which may be called during the  same horizon.  3.10   The PRA prescribes assumptions about the intra - month distribution of the latter.  3.11   In respect of claims and obligations without a c ontractual end date, the PRA assumes  that:  (c)   The LCR - prescribed liquidity inflows and outflows from wholesale transactions and retail  fundi ng occur on day one of stress.  (d)   Liquidity outflows from off - balance sheet transactions without a defined maturity date  occur either on day one of the granular LCR stress (eg outflows corresponding to collateral  needs from derivatives transactions) or are uniformly distributed across the 30 - days  horizon (eg mortgage loans that have been agreed but not yet drawn down).  3.12   Avail able liquidity from HQLA is used to complete the calculation of net liquidity profiles  under the granular LCR stress. The available liquidity will be calculated with LCR haircuts  applied and after applying the criteria as specified in Article 17 of Regulat ion (EU) No 2015/61.  Through the granular LCR stress therefore the PRA covers ‘low - point’ risk. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   4  B .   Benchmark retail   only and wholesale only   stress scenarios (90   day horizon)  3.13   The PRA will also monitor a 90   day horizon. To have visibility over cliff risks   under a  severe yet plausible stress, the PRA extends the respective LCR inflow and outflow rates to  contractual flows scheduled between days 31 - 90 (months two and three of stress).  3.14   The benchmark retail   only   stress applies the LCR stress inflow and outflo w rates to retail  claims and obligations contractually maturing within days 1 to 90. Liquidity flows from claims  and obligations without a contractual end date should be assumed to materialise only once, as  per LCR stress, within days 1 to 30 of the stress   period; the timing of these liquidity flows  should follow the assumptions described in paragraph 3.11.  3.15   The benchmark wholesale   only   stress applies the LCR stress inflow and outflow rates to  wholesale claims and obligations contractually maturing within da ys 1 to 90. Liquidity flows  from claims and obligations without a contractual end date should be assumed to materialise  only once, as per LCR stress, within days 1 to 30 of the stress period; the timing of these  liquidity flows should follow the assumption s described in paragraph 3.11.  3.16   The benchmark retail   only   and wholesale   only   stress scenarios are considered both  separately and jointly, as a combined benchmark stress scenario. The available liquidity  derived from the firm’s HQLA as described in paragraph 3.12 within days 1 to 90 will be used  to complete the calculation of net l iquidity profiles under the benchmark stress scenarios. 1  C.   Granular LCR stress scenario (30 day horizon) and benchmark retail   only , wholesale  only   and combined stress scenarios (90 day horizon) with monetisation profile  3.17   The PRA will monitor HQLA monetisa tion risks related to the granular LCR stress scenario  and the Benchmark retail   only,   wholesale   only   and combined stress scenarios.  3.18   The granular LCR stress scenario (30 - day horizon) with monetisation profile applies LCR  stress inflow and outflow rates as p rescribed in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11. Instead of computing  available liquidity as prescribed in para 3.12, daily available liquidity from cash, central bank  reserves and monetising non - cash HQLA are used to complete the calculation of net liquidity  profiles   under the granular LCR stress scenario with monetisation profile. Where firms have  stress outflows that can be met by posting of securities rather than requiring monetisation of  non - cash HQLA, this will be included in the assessment of daily available liq uidity. See  ‘Approach to modelling the monetisation of high quality liquid assets (HQLA)’ section in  paragraphs 3.24 and 3.25 for more information. Through the granular LCR stress with  monetisation profile therefore, the PRA will be able to monitor both ‘l ow - point’ and HQLA  monetisation risks.  3.19   The benchmark retail   only   and wholesale   only   stress scenarios are considered both  separately and jointly, as a combined benchmark scenario, with monetisation profile. Instead  of computing available liquidity as prescr ibed in para 3.12 the daily available liquidity derived  from the firm’s monetisation of non - cash HQLA will be used to complete the calculation of net  liquidity profiles under the benchmark stress scenarios with monetisation profile.  Enhanced stress tools  3.20   T he PRA uses two additional stress tools, as sensitivity checks, to monitor firms’ resilience  to very severe stress events.  1   The first 30 days of the combined benchmark scenario is   equivalent to the granular LCR stress scenario. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   5  D.   Combined benchmark with an   enhanced   retail stress (90   day horizon)  3.21   The PRA assesses firms’ vulnerability to an acute retail run   by amplifying outflow rates on  uninsured deposits to   levels informed by certain severe stress episodes   observed during the  financial crisis.  E.   Enhanced wholesale   only   stress (90   day horizon)  3.22   The PRA assesses firms’ reliance on wholesale markets and their vulnerability to a market  shutdown   through an enhanced wholesale   only   stress. This assumes a   partial   closure of  secured ,   and   a complete closure of   unsecured whol esale markets for 90 days, with   claims   on,  and obligations   to market counterparties running off at the earliest possible date (according to  contractual rights) except those secured on the most liquid assets.  Foreign currency mismatches in the CFMR framework  3.23   The PRA monitors the granula r LCR and combined benchmark stress scenarios, the  combined benchmark stress scenarios with monetisation profile, and enhanced wholesale  stress tool, on a single currency basis. In the scenarios and tools monitored at the single  currency level, the PRA doe s not differentiate between outflow rates for domestic currencies  and non - domestic currencies.  Approach to modelling the monetisation of high quality liquid assets (HQLA)  3.24   The PRA includes in its assessment, assumptions provided by firms on the limitations   they  are   likely to face in monetising non - cash HQLA   and on outflows that can be met by posting of  securities. Firms will assess, at least annually, the speed with which they expect to be able to  monetise different types of non - cash HQLA, on a daily basis,   via repo markets and outright  sales, in times of stress. Firms will not include public liquidity insurance as a   monetisation  channel in this assessment. This enables the PRA to monitor firms’ resilience to different  stresses using self - insurance alone.   Fir ms will use their assessments to report the resulting  monetisation profiles in PRA110. 2   The monetisation profile will not be included in the granular  LCR stress scenario or benchmark stress scenarios; it will only be included in the granular LCR  stress   sce nario   with   monetisation   profile   and   the   benchmark   stress   scen arios   with  monetisation profile.  3.25   These profiles will be computed and reported on a consolidated currency level as well as  in each significant currency. 3  Monitoring tools, metrics and limits  3.26   The   PRA applies the CFMR stress assumptions to the contractual flows and ‘open  maturity’ columns from the PRA110 report to compute daily projected inflows, outflows and  net outflows under each scenario. The LCR inflow cap does not apply to the daily projected  flows.   The PRA incorporates reported Level 1, level 2A and Level 2B assets as reported in the  counterbalancing capacity rows from PRA110 or monetisation profiles to compute daily  available liquidity, and accounts for projected liquidity needs associated   w ith remaining Pillar 2  risks (which could crystallise at the same time as other risks captured in the CFMR scenarios).  The   PRA then calculates the following standard monitoring metrics on a consolidated currency  basis:  a)   survival days under the combined ben chmark stress scenarios , 4   the combined benchmark  stress scenarios with monetisation profile, 5   and the enhanced stress tools   as the distance  2   PRA110 is available at:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/ regulatory - reporting/regulatory - reporting -  banking - sector .  3   The PRA does not expect this to create an additional burden: firms would anyway need to consider   limits by each security  type (e g gilts, treasuries) to design consolidated currency profiles. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   6  (in number of days) to the future point in time when a firm’s cumulative net cash outflows  become larger than its av ailable liquidity;  b)   net liquidity position (the difference between available liquidity and cumulative net  outflows) on expected day of default under the comb ined benchmark stress scenarios,   the  combined benchmark stress scenarios with monetisation profile,   and the enhanced stress  tools; and  c)   peak cumulative net outflows and worst net liquidity position under the granular LCR  stress within 30 days, under each of the benchmark stresses   and enhanced stress tools  within 90 days, under the granular LCR stress sce nario with monetisation profile within 30  days and the combined benchmark stress scenarios with monet isation profile within 90  days.  3.27   The PRA assumes that, when computing metrics (a), (b) and (c ) above, projected liquidity  needs associated with Pillar 2 ri sks will materialise as follows:  (a)   intraday, margined derivatives and securities financing margin on day one;  (b)   prime brokerage, matched books, debt buyback, and non - margined derivatives uniformly  over the business days contained within the first seven calend ar days ;  (c)   Liquidity systems and controls (L - SYSC )risk uniformly over the business days contained  within the first thirty calendar days;  (d)   intragroup to be advised individually to the firm if an add - on is applied.  3.28   The PRA will monitor firms’ worst net liquid ity position under the granular LCR stress, the  granular LCR stress with monetisation profile and enhanced wholesale stress tool, on a single  currency basis within a 15 - calendar - day horizon. The PRA will also monitor firms’ survival days  under the granular   LCR stress and the granular LCR stress with monetisation profile in each  significant currency.  4   This is equivalent to the granular LCR stress during the first 30 days.  5   This is equivalent to the granular LCR stress with monetisation profile during the first 30 days. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   7  Table 1:   Stress scenarios 6  Stress Scenarios  Consolidated Currency   Single Currency  Monitoring   Setting  guidance  Monitoring   Setting  guidance  Granular LCR              Benchmark         Retail   only          Wholesale   only          Granular LCR with monetisation  profile          Benchmark  with  monetisation  profile         Retail   only          Wholesale   only          Table 2: Stress tools  Stress   Tools  Consolidated Currency   Single Currency  Monitoring   Setting  guidance  Monitoring   Setting  guidance  Combined Benchmark with  Enhanced Retail      Enhanced Wholesale   Only         Franchise viability: debt buyback, early termination of non - margined  derivatives   and prime brokerage and matched books  4.1   Several risks fall within the franchise viability category: this chapter focuses on three types  of franchise viability risk which will be assessed under Pillar 2. The first part provides a general  definition of franchise viability liquidity risk. The second part outlines the PRA’s approach to  assessing debt buyback risk, the risk of early termination of non - margined derivatives, and  prime brokerage and matched book liquidity risks under Pillar 2.  De finition of franchise viability risk  4.2   Franchise viability risk arises when a firm takes actions, despite having no legal obligation  to do so, in order to preserve its reputation, and where these actions cause unforeseen  liquidity outflows. Failing to take t hese actions may damage the firm’s franchise, which could  impede access to wholesale markets or cause significant outflows. The associated outflows are  uncertain   before the event, as there is no associated contractual obligation.  6   The PRA will monitor the wholesale benchmark and combined benchmark stress   scenarios. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   8  4.3   Franchise viability risk i s an open - ended category. It includes risks from prime brokerage,  matched books, debt buyback, early termination of non - margined derivatives and settlement  failure risk. Chart 1 depicts a counterparty non - contractual request and the impact this may  have on   maturity.  Chart 1 : Effect of a   counterparty non - contractual request   on   maturit y  Debt buyback   risk  4.4   Debt buyback risk arises when firms   are asked, by holders of their paper, to buy back debt  immediately, transforming a longer - dated contractual maturity into a new, short - dated  effective maturity, as shown in Chart 1. Firms may accept buyback requests, despite having no  legal obligation to d o so, for reputational reasons and to show that a functioning two - way  secondary market exists for their debt. Outflows that were previously forecast to occur over  the medium to long term have therefore been brought forward.  4.5   If a firm were to refuse such a   request, it may signal that it was experiencing a liquidity  stress. This could cause liquidity outflows and/or damage future access to capital markets.  However, if a firm accepts a buyback request, it must ensure it has liquidity readily available to  fulfi l that request.  4.6   As early buyback of debt is not a contractual obligation, this risk is not captured in the LCR:  only outflows from debt   contractually   maturing within 30 days are captured in the LCR.  4.7   When   assessing   liquidity   risk   arising from   debt buyback   r isk,   based   on the   firm’s  percentage of outstanding debt the supervisor may:  a)   consider outstanding debt with maturities beyond a 30 day horizon. This assessment will  take into account the need for banks to maintain levels of debt eligible for   minimum  requir ement for own funds and eligible liabilities   ( MREL ) in a stress; 7   and  b)   take into account activity in the secondary debt market. Firms that are market makers in  their secondary debt market may experience a greater frequency of buyback requests.  4.8   The PRA’s app roach relies on firms’ systems and processes recording instances of  buybacks, including the circumstances in which they arise.  7   November 2016, see page 2 of:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/pru dential - regulation/publication/2015/the - minimum -  requirement - for - own - funds - and - eligible - liabilities - mrel - buffers - and - threshold .  Non - contractual  request  Contractual  maturity  New effective  maturity  LCR   Window   30 days   X years  Time This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   9  Risk from early termination of non - margined derivatives  4.9   Non - margined derivative transactions incur neither initial nor variatio n margin: changes in  the mark - to - market value of the derivative are not reserved for upfront or day by day. As a  result, negative mark - to - market fluctuations in value may result in unexpected liquidity  outflows for a firm   if the derivatives contracts were   to be terminated early. 8  4.10   A firm’s derivative counterparty may, at any time, request early termination of the  transaction. Such requests may occur for a number of reasons, but will likely occur when the  counterparty is ‘in the money’ on the transaction: con versely, that means the firm is out of the  money at the point of early termination, and, for non - margined trades, it will therefore incur  an unexpected liquidity   outflow   if it accepts the request.  4.11   A firm may still accept such requests, despite having no le gal obligation to do so, as  rejection could suggest it does not have enough liquidity to compensate its ‘in the money’  counterparty. Such a perception could result in the firm being locked out of wholesale funding  markets.  4.12   Payments at the contractual matu rity date of the derivative are accounted for in the LCR.  Liquidity risk from early termination is not included, because there is no contractual obligation  to accept a request for early termination. Therefore if the contractual maturity date falls  outside   the LCR stress horizon, and an early termination request is accepted, the resulting  outflow will not be included in the LCR. As with debt buyback risk, early terminations of non -  margined derivatives result in an original maturity date contractually outside   the 30 day  horizon of the LCR being transformed into an effective maturity date that falls within that  30   day window (see Chart 1).  4.13   When   assessing liquidity risk arising from non - margined derivatives, based on the firm’s  percentage of outstanding exposure, the supervisor may:  (e)   choose either peak or average exposure on a mark - to - market basis of out - of - the - money  contracts;  (f)   identify a historic al time period which, allows the supervisor to ‘look through’ unusual  events   regarding frequency of early termination requests; and  (g)   take into account the following factors as a guide for setting the size of the add - on:  (i)   exposure, as a proportion of total ba lance sheet, to non - margined derivatives; and  (ii)   exposure to derivatives with more volatile mark - to - market valuations. On average,  greater mark - to - market volatility will cause greater liquidity outflows from early  termination, for a given frequency of early t erminations and a given exposure.  4.14   The PRA’s approach relies on firms’ systems and processes recording instances of early  termination requests, including the circumstances in which they arise.  Prime brokerage and matched book liquidity risk  4.15   This section pro vides a definition of prime brokerage and matched book liquidity risk, and  outlines the PRA’s approach to assessing and calibrating the risk under Pillar 2.  8   While the materiality of the non - margined derivative market has declined as a result of the move to greater margining and  cent ral clearing, the PRA considers that non - margined derivatives can be a material liquidity risk for some firms. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   10  4.16   Prime brokerage services allow investors, usually hedge funds, access to securities  lending, lever aged trade executions, and cash management, among other things. Prime  brokers (PB) act as intermediaries to facilitate investor positions, but do not generally assume  the risk of the transactions. They do this by sourcing funding for the transactions and,   where  possible, the maturity of this funding will be matched to the maturity of the client transaction.  4.17   The two main liquidity risks within prime brokerage relate to   franchise risk and  internalisation (whereby a PB can internally net opposite positions on   the same asset). Both  risks, if either were to materialise, would require the firm to cover or refund customer  positions. In a stress situation, firms may find accessing usual sources of funding for these  positions difficult and therefore liquidity is requ ired to cover these risks.  4.18   Franchise risk : PBs often offer their service to maintain a franchise value with their  clients in addition to the revenues generated directly by the business activity. As such, the PB  may roll over funding transactions at a custo mer’s request even in circumstances where doing  so might be detrimental to the firm’s liquidity position. This could leave the PB in a position  where either the customer transaction is not fully covered, and so will need to be funded  further by the PB, or   the maturities of the matched transactions no longer align.  4.19   Internalisation : If a PB has two clients that are taking opposite positions on the same  asset (one long, the other short), the PB may internally net these amounts to avoid having to  fund the posi tions elsewhere: a client short position is therefore funding a client long position.  Liquidity risk arises if one client wishes to withdraw from their transaction: the PB will either  need to find additional funding or will need to purchase or borrow the a sset to match the  remaining transaction.  4.20   Risks posed by franchise risk and internalisation are different:  (h)   Franchise risk is dependent on how likely (willing) a PB is to roll over the transaction of a  client in order to protect its franchise, and the amou nt that is likely to be rolled over.  (i)   Internalisation risk crystallises when a customer withdraws their position, giving rise to a  funding requirement for the remaining customer position, where previously the positions  had matched each other.  Synthetic prim e brokerage  4.21   Where synthetic structures, using derivatives, are used to mimic the effects of cash prime  brokerage transactions the PRA assesses the underlying economics of the transactions and  aligns the assessment with that of cash transactions. This is be cause synthetic structures  generate similar risks to cash transactions.  4.22   The LCR in some cases captures these types of risks, including liquidity risks arising from  deposits from prime brokerage customers. But for most liquidity risks within prime brokerage  and matched books, the LCR either does not capture, or does not fully capture the risks posed  by franchise risk and internalisation.  Methodology for assessing liquidity risks arising from prime brokerage and matched  books  4.23   The PRA assesses firms on a case - by - case basis, using a supervisory approach described  below, alongside firms’ own assessment. The PRA keeps its approach general to allow  flexibility for changing business practices. This ensures the general principles appl y for all  similar cases and accounts for differences in businesses. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   11  4.24   The PRA expects, as part of its   Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process ( L -  SREP )   that firms will undertake an assessment of their prime brokerage clients to determine  the like ly liquidity risks that could arise for franchise reasons, in a stress. This will inform the  supervisor’s judgement.  4.25   An initial add - on is calculated using the inflow rate that has been applied for secured  funding transactions under the LCR. If the transact ions are internally netted and conducted  synthetically, the PRA will seek to assess these transactions consistently with the LCR rates.  This ensures a consistent treatment of prime brokerage business across the LCR and Pillar 2.  4.26   The supervisor then applie s judgement through the use of appropriate firm level  information or data to adjust the initial add - on calculation. This takes into account a number of  factors including the firm’s governance and risk management, concentration of funding  counterparties, an d the firm’s own franchise client assessment.  Consideration of inflow cap  4.27   Certain business models such as cash prime brokerage and matched books can lead to  large gross inflows and outflows, which means the LCR inflow cap is more likely to apply. This is  likely to affect firms specialising in PB activities much more than firms w ho undertake this as a  smaller part of their overall diversified activities.  4.28   In determining any liquidity guidance issued for cash prime brokerage or matched books,  the PRA takes into consideration ‘capped out’ inflows, and may in limited circumstances al low  a firm to use capped out inflows under the LCR in lieu of a liquidity add - on. Any liquidity  guidance issued will be dynamic in that, if capped out inflows are not sufficient to cover the  entire guidance specified by the PRA, additional HQLA equal to th e value of the difference  between capped out inflows and the total add - on will be required.  Intraday   l iquidity  5.1   This   chapter   provides a definition of intraday liquidity risk and outlines the PRA’s approach  to assessing and calibrating intraday liquidity ris k under   Pillar 2.  5.2   The PRA   define s   intraday liquidity risk as   ‘ the risk that a firm is unable to meet its daily  settlement obligations, for example, as a result of timing mismatches arising from direct and  indirect membership of relevant payments or securit ies settlements systems ’ . 9  5.3   The PRA considers that all firms connected to payment or securities settlement systems,  either directly or indirectly, are exposed to intraday liquidity risk.  5.4   This chapter addresses intraday liquidity risk within two main types o f system: payment  systems and securities settlement systems, covering both gross and net settlement.   There are  two ways in which a firm can connect to   these systems:   directly or indirectly. A   ‘ direct  participant ’   is directly connected to the system and is   responsible to the settlement agent (or  to all other participants) for the settlement of its own payments, those of its customers and  those of indirect participants on whose behalf it is settling.   An   ‘ indirect participant ’   requires  9   SS24/15 ‘The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks’, February 2018, paragraph 2.23;  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/the - pras - approach - to - supervising - liquidity - and -  funding - risks - ss . This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   12  the services of a direct   participant to perform activities on its behalf ( eg   input of transfer  orders,   settlement) . 10  Double duty  5.5   Mitigating the risk of double duty is a primary reason for including a calibration of intraday  liquidity risk in a firm’s liquid asset buffer. Double   duty is the use of a liquid asset buffer held  for wider liquidity resilience, to also support payments and securities settlement activities  intraday, where intraday liquidity risk is not included as a risk in the calibration of the liquid  asset buffer.  5.6   Whi le double duty can reduce the cost of participation in payment and securities  settlement systems through lower liquid asset holdings, it carries risks. Conceptually, there is a  significant risk associated with using the same assets for two separate purpose s: when the  assets are used for one purpose they are not available for another purpose. In practice this  manifests itself in two ways:  (j)   Balance sheet resilience risk:   if a firm’s liquid asset buffer is serving the purpose of  providing intraday liquidity the n it cannot be as effective as a buffer against a run on  liabilities.  (k)   Intraday liquidity risk:   if a firm suffers a prolonged balance sheet liquidity stress, this uses  up the firm’s liquid asset buffer meaning that the bank has insufficient funds available   to  operate effectively in payments and securities settlement systems. 11  5.7   For these reasons, the PRA mitigates the risks associated with double duty by including  intraday liquidity risk as a distinct risk.  Overall assessment of intraday liquidity risk  5.8   Where a n add - on is applied to mitigate intraday liquidity risk, it will be   determined   by  considering:  (l)   the firm’s   mean maximum net debits;  (m)   the firm’s stress testing framework;  (n)   the quality of the firms’ operations, process, technology and policy; and  (o)   the relevant c haracteristics of the firm the markets the firm operates in.  5.9   The PRA considers that the mean average of maximum net debits, combined with a stress  uplift, is the most appropriate measure to assess core intraday liquidity risk, along with an  evaluation of o perations and controls. The remainder of this chapter explains this approach in  more detail. It also details alternative methodologies for calibrating intraday liquidity risk,  when the data are not available to calculate the maximum net debit.  10   Com mittee on Payment and Settlement Systems (2003), ‘A glossary of terms used in payments and settlement systems’;  http://www.bis.org/cpmi/glossary_030301.pdf .  11   For an example of the dangers associ ated with double duty, see Ball et al. (2010), ‘Intraday liquidity: risk and regulation’,  Bank of England Financial Stability Paper No. 11 June 2011, Box 2;   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/financial - stability -  paper/2011/intraday - liquidity - risk - and - regulation . This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   13  Maximum net   debit  5.10   The maximum net debit is a measure of the intraday liquidity need of a firm on any given  day. It is   calculated as the   point at which the value of payments sent by a firm most exceeds  the value received by that firm, for a given payment or   securities settlement system.   Chart   2  shows how Firm A’s payment profile and intraday liquidity needs can evolve in a single system  over the course of a day.  5.11   The PRA favours the mean average maximum net debit measure, combined with a stress  uplift based o n relevant scenarios and an evaluation of operations and control. An alternative  approach to sizing intraday liquidity risk is to consider the peak maximum net debit. But this is  often driven by one - off, anticipated events, for which liquidity has been set   aside, and  therefore does not always provide a true reflection of a firm’s intraday liquidity risk on an  ongoing basis.  5.12   The mean average maximum net debit is assessed for a firm on a system by system basis.  The PRA recognises that some firms may be able t o create liquidity efficiencies across the  systems they operate in. However ,   for the purposes of considering intraday liquidity risk, the  PRA does not consider these efficiencies to be accurately quantifiable on a systematic basis.  Nonetheless, where a fir m can demonstrate these efficiencies the PRA will give them due  consideration during the L - SREP assessment.  Chart 2:   Example of an   intraday   real time gross settlement   payment profile, for a single firm  5.13   A firm should not assume that a reduction   in the maximum net debit profile will  necessarily lead to a reduction in the PRA’s assessment of intraday liquidity risk.  Alternative methodologies for s izing   i ntraday   l iquidity   a dd - on s  5.14   The methodologies used by the PRA are based on the maximum net debit   position of a  firm as a first best option, but where a firm is unable to calculate its maximum net debit, the  PRA can employ a range of other methodologies.  5.15   An important   proxy   methodolog y   is   to estimate the level of   liquidity recycling. Liquidity  recycling   is the r atio   between   value of payments sent and liquidity usage.   For example, in a This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   14  single   system on a given day, if a firm has liquidity usage of £1   m illion   and   a   gross outflow   of  £10   m illion , the firm would have a liquidity recycling factor of 10.  Secure d, d isclosed   i ntraday   c redit   facilities in securities settlement systems  5.16   An alternative to the maximum net debit approach for assessing intraday liquidity risk is  used when   the following   criteria are met:  (p)   t he   securities   settlement venue provides a secured   and disclosed intraday credit facility to  the participant; and  (q)   the   participant in that system secures their intraday credit line by holding a pool of assets.  5.17   When both criteria are met, the PRA will consider the size of the secured facility when  assessing the intraday liquidity risk.  Assessing risks in stress  5.18   As outlined in paragraph 5.9, a stress uplift is applied to the assessment of intraday  liquidity risk.  Stress scenarios  5.19   T he following , based on the stress scenarios detailed in Basel Committe e on Banking  Supervision (BCBS) ‘Monitoring tools for intraday liquidity management’, 12   are ways in which  an intraday stress may manifest:  (r)   a credit or liquidity shock affecting the   firm   directly, reducing counterparties’ willingness to  make payments to it in a timely fashion;  (s)   an operational, credit or liquidity shock affecting the ability of a major counterparty in the  payment system to make payments to the settlement   firm   as expected;  (t)   a   credit or liquidity shock affecting a major customer or group of customers of the  settlement   firm , preventing them from receiving payments as expected;   and  (u)   market conditions change which mean that a given pool of assets generates less intraday  liquidity .  5.20   Scenarios (a) to (c) capture the risk of a change in the payment profile of a firm which can  in turn affect the maximum net debit position, while scenario (d) affects the ability of the firm  to fund its intraday liquidity position. These stresses are appli cable to both direct and indirect  participants. For more detail on the manifestations of these stress scenarios, see BCBS  Monitoring tools for intraday liquidity management.  5.21   A significant impact of stress (i) on a firm that uses correspondent banking servi ces may  be the withdrawal of intraday credit line(s) by its correspondent bank(s). This may require the  firm to prefund or collateralise its intraday credit line(s).  Stress uplift  5.22   The stress uplift reference point is based on historical evidence gathered d uring stressed  conditions of the type described above, and for both market stress and idiosyncratic stresses.  Firms should develop their own stress scenarios in line with their risk appetite.  12   BCBS (2013), ‘Monitoring tools for intraday liquidity management’;   http://www.b is.org/publ/bcbs248.pdf . This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   15  5.23   The stress uplift applied will be subject to supervisory judgeme nt .   Factors taken into  account will include, but are not limited to, the sophistication of the firm’s intraday liquidity  management systems, how the firm connects to the respective payment and securities  settlement systems it uses, and the business model o f the firm.  5.24   The PRA expects firms to consider the risk of haircut and collateral eligibility changes in  their assessment of intraday liquidity risk.  Other liquidity risks  Margined derivatives  6.1   This section provides a definition of the liquidity risks arisin g from margined derivatives  then outlines the PRA’s approach to assessing and calibrating the risk under Pillar 2.  6.2   The PRA considers that liquidity risk arising from initial margin on derivatives contracts is  not captured in the LCR. However, liquidity ri sk arising from variation margin on derivatives  contracts is captured within the LCR. Therefore, the Pillar 2 assessment of liquidity risk arising  from derivatives contracts will cover initial margin only.  Methodology for assessing liquidity risks arising   from initial margin on derivatives  contracts  Initial margin posted  6.3   During stress, counterparties may, for a number of reasons, increase a firm’s initial margin  requirements. This represents a contingent liquidity risk.  6.4   When calculating a firm’s liquidity n eed arising from initial margin posted, the PRA takes  into consideration the historical average of initial margin posted to counterparties, and applies  a stress uplift to this figure.  Loss of initial margin as a source of funding  6.5   The loss of initial margin received due to the counterparty requesting a trade termination,  novation, or segregation represents a contingent liquidity risk to the extent that collateral is no  longer available to the firm to use as a source of funding. Firm s generally have the contractual  right to refuse these requests but may grant requests due to franchise reasons. As such, the  PRA will in general treat risks arising from the loss of   initial margin ( IM )   received as a funding  source, consistently with the P RA’s approach to other franchise risks.  6.6   When assessing liquidity risk arising from loss of initial margin as a source of funding, the  supervisor takes into consideration historical evidence of trade termination, novation or  segregation. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   16  Securities financ ing margin  6.7   This section provides a definition of the liquidity risks arising from securities financing  initial   margin   requirements   (SFMR)   and outlines the   PRA’s   approach   to   assessing   and  calibrating the risk under Pillar 2.  6.8   SFMR is the risk of additional   outflows relating to margin requirements on securities  transactions, both over - the - counter (OTC) and centrally cleared repo transactions. The PRA will  assess:  (v)   firm - related margin calls due to the perceived higher probability of default of the firm by  the r epo counterparty; and  (w)   collateral - related margin calls due to a fall in the price of the collateral or haircut widening  due to perceived higher risk of the collateral.  6.9   When assessing the liquidity risk arising from SFMR, the PRA takes into consideration th e  firm’s own historical average initial margin data and applies a stress uplift. The stress uplift will  be informed by supervisory judgement, the firm’s own assessment, peer comparison, and risk  management approaches of relevant clearing houses.  Intragroup   Liquidity  6.10   Intragroup liquidity risk may manifest in the following situations   where :  (a)   entities within the same group are strongly interconnected and reliant on each other,  there is a risk that intragroup support may become unavailable in stress; and  (b)   liquidi ty may not flow freely within one group or one single legal entity, between an  overseas branch and headquarters because of legal, contractual, regulatory or operational  limitations resulting in liquidity being trapped in business as usual circumstances or  becoming trapped under stress.  6.11   The   PRA   addresses   intragroup   liquidity   risk   on   a   case - by - case   basis,   taking   into  consideration the degree of intragroup interconnectedness. This includes group entities’  degree of willingness and ability to support one anoth er in both business - as - usual and stress  situations.  6.12   In respect of trapped liquidity, following LCR Article 7(2), assets which are subject to any  legal, contractual, regulatory or other restriction preventing the firm from disposing of those  assets cannot q ualify as liquid assets. Some assets are not subject to any such restriction in  business as usual circumstances but may become trapped under stress, for any contingent  restriction that a third country may set. Such assets are not excluded from the LCR. The refore,  as part of the Pillar 2 assessment of intragroup liquidity risk, the PRA considers the risk of  contingent trapped liquidity.  Liquidity systems and controls  6.13   This section provides a definition of L - SYSC risks and then outlines the PRA’s approach to  a ssessing and calibrating the risk under Pillar 2.  6.14   L - SYSC risks can be both quantitative and qualitative in nature. Quantitative risks typically  include mismeasuring or misreporting, inappropriate assumptions or imprudent calibrations.  Qualitative risks can   include a lack of reportable metrics, poorly articulated risk appetites and This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   17  poor quality ILAAPs. Risks stemming from   inadequate liquidity systems and controls are not  currently captured under Pillar 1.  6.15   Such quantitative and qualitative issues can demons trate poor liquidity risk management  and give rise to additional liquidity risks. Where such concerns are noted, the PRA typically  informs a firm of these and requests remediation. The PRA may also impose additional  liquidity guidance under Pillar 2, until   such time as L - SYSC risks have been addressed. This  liquidity guidance is generally calibrated in the form of a scalar applied to the total of a firm’s  LCR net outflows and other Pillar 2 liquidity guidance.  6.16   L - SYSC   risks   and   poor   liquidity   risk   management   are   typically   idiosyncratic,   and  supervisory analysis and judgement are crucial in assessing the level of risk posed and the  appropriate mitigant. To ensure consistency, L - SYSC scalars are therefore also informed by  internal peer review.  6.17   The purpose of an y additional liquidity guidance stemming from L - SYSC concerns should  not be confused or conflated with the existing Risk Management and Governance (‘RM&G’)  capital scalar framework set out in the PRA’s statement of policy on methodologies for setting  Pilla r 2 capital. As set out in that statement, a RM&G scalar is considered only when the PRA  assesses a firm’s overall risk management and governance to be significantly weak. As  outlined, any L - SYSC scalar would only be considered to specifically reflect inad equate liquidity  systems and controls.  6.18   However, there could be circumstances in which a firm has both poor overall risk  management and governance, and inadequate liquidity systems and controls. In such a  scenario, both a RM&G scalar and an L - SYSC scalar co uld be both proportionate and  appropriate. This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded

Pillar 2 liquidity   June 2019   18  Annex:   U pdates to SoP   ‘Pillar 2 liquidity’  June 2019  Following publication of Policy Statement   13 /19   ‘Pillar 2 liquidity: updates to the  framework’ , 13   this SoP was updated to provide further detail on   the following, and will take  effect from Monday 1 July 2019 :     how the PRA sets guidance under the CFMR framework   (paragraph 3.7) ;     the definition and assumptions under the benchmark stress scenarios and enhanced stress  tools   (paragraphs 3.13 to 3.17, 3.19,   3.21 and 3.22) ; and     the metrics that the PRA will calculate under the benchmark stress scenarios and  enhanced stress tools   (paragraph 3.26) .  The SoP has also been updated to include improvements to assist the reader,   eg   removing  blank pages,   making   hyper links visible and hav ing   continuous footnote numbers.  13   June 2019:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/pillar - 2 - liquidity - updates - to - the -  framework . This SOP has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2018/pillar-2-liquidity Superseded


