---
title: "PS19/15 – Ps1915"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/policy-statement/2015/ps1915.pdf"
---

# PS19/15 – Ps1915

Policy Statement   |   PS19/15 The PRA Rulebook: Part 3 August 2015

Prudential Regulation Authority 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA Prudential Regulation Authority, registered office: 8 Lothbury, London EC2R 7HH. Registered in England and Wales No: 07854923

Policy Statement   |   PS19/15 The PRA Rulebook: Part 3 August 2015 This policy statement contains final rules and supervisory statements following on from   Consultation Paper CP17/15 , ‘The PRA Rulebook: Part 3’, April 2015. © Prudential Regulation Authority 2015



The PRA Rulebook: Part 3 August 2015   3  1   Overview  1.1 This Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) policy statement (PS) publishes final rules and supervisory statements following on from   Consultation Paper CP17/15 , ‘The PRA Rulebook: Part 3’.   (1)   It is relevant to all PRA-regulated firms. 1.2 The PRA is required by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to have regard to any representations made to the proposals in a consultation, and to publish an account, in general terms, of those representations and its response to them. 1.3 The PRA does not consider that the responses to the consultation necessitate major changes to the proposals set out in the consultation. However, consideration of the responses to CP17/15 has resulted in some changes to some of the forms in the draft Passporting instrument (see Appendix 1.1). The PRA’s response to the feedback received on the proposed rules is provided in this PS. 1.4 The PRA has decided to postpone the publication of a supervisory statement on internal governance of third-country branches (Appendix 2.2 in CP17/15) and the making of the PRA Rulebook: CRR firms: Internal governance of third-country branches instrument 2015 (Appendix 1.4 in CP17/15) as a number of expectations will be superseded or otherwise affected by the introduction of the Senior Managers Regime. The PRA will publish the final supervisory statement in due course. 1.5 Prior to consultation, the PRA considered the way in which the rules advance its objectives, impacts mutuals, is consistent with the Regulatory Principles, and impacts on equality and diversity. The costs and benefits of the proposed policy were also considered. The PRA’s findings on these issues are unchanged following consultation and consideration of the feedback received. The rules are neutral with respect to competition in the relevant markets. 1.6 This PS further advances the commitment made by the PRA in its Approach Documents to amend and streamline substantially both the PRA Handbook and the associated materials carried over from the Financial Services Authority, creating a new Rulebook and body of supporting supervisory statements. 1.7 The final rules and supervisory statements contained in this PS have been drafted to be clear in intent, straightforward in presentation and as concise as possible. They complement the new structure of the Rulebook online. 1.8 Until the PRA has rewritten all of the content in the Handbook, PRA-authorised firms must ensure that they comply fully with the requirements in both the PRA Handbook and Rulebook. 1.9 Appendix 1 and 2 contain the final rules and supervisory statements, respectively.  2   The PRA’s response to feedback received  2.1 One respondent asked why the draft passporting forms did not reflect the requirements of Solvency II. The proposed changes on passporting reshape existing Handbook material into the Rulebook. Solvency II takes effect on 1 January 2016. The PRA will consult on changes to its passporting rules and forms for that Directive in due course. 2.2 The same respondent also highlighted several typographical corrections, and points of clarity, on the forms, which the PRA has corrected in the final version. 2.3 One respondent asked why the draft rules on reverse stress testing distinguished between insurers and other regulated firms. The draft rules on reverse stress testing apply to banks and financial institutions but not insurers. Therefore, only the rules and guidance applicable to banks and financial institutions have been moved into the new instrument while SYSC 20 will continue to apply to insurers. 2.4 The transfer of rules that remain applicable to insurers in the Handbook to the Rulebook is subject to separate consultations, including previous Solvency II consultations, policy statements and the forthcoming consultations on the rules applicable to non-Solvency II firms. 2.5 The PRA confirms that there is no requirement to appoint a chief risk officer. The supervisory statement on internal control (SS21/15) has been amended to reflect this.  3   Rulebook online  3.1 The PRA is planning to launch the new PRA Rulebook online this year. The new website will reshape the presentation of the PRA’s requirements by improving the online presentation and functionality of the PRA’s rules. 3.2 At present, rule-making instruments that have been made by the Board of the PRA, including the instruments annexed to this PS, are being published in PDF formats on the existing shared Handbook website. The Rulebook online will consolidate these instruments into the new website. 3.3 Although the Rulebook online will contain the most accessible version of the PRA’s rules which will be (1)   PRA Consultation Paper CP17/15 , ‘The PRA Rulebook: Part 3’, April 2015; www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/cp/2015/cp1715.aspx.

consolidated on a regular basis, the definitive rules are always contained in the PRA's rule-making instruments.  Structure  3.4 The Rulebook contains three main sectors: (i) Banking and investment; (ii) Insurance; and (iii) Non-authorised persons. 3.5 The Banking and investment sector is split into rules that apply to (i) firms subject to the Capital Requirement Regulations (CRR) and (ii) firms that are not subject to the CRR. The Insurance sector splits rules that apply to (i) firms subject to the Solvency II Directive and (ii) firms that are not subject to that directive. The third sector contains requirements that apply to non-authorised persons. 3.6 Each sector is divided into Parts. Parts are divided into chapters, and each chapter contains a narrow grouping of rules. The Rulebook does not contain guidance; all relevant guidance has been moved into either a supervisory statement or on the PRA’s website. 3.7 This structure will enable firms to access easily all of the rules that apply to them at any one point in time. Firms will also be able to access Parts which contain rules that are cross-sectoral, within each sector, such as the Fundamental Rules.  Naming and numbering convention  3.8 The Rulebook has a new naming and numbering convention. Each Part succinctly and uniquely describes at a high-level the subject matter of the rules contained within that Part. The Rulebook does not use acronyms as a part of its naming convention.  4   The PRA Rulebook: Part 3 August 2015

The PRA Rulebook: Part 3 August 2015   5  Appendices  Appendix 1: Instruments  1.1   PRA Rulebook — Passporting Instrument 2015 1.2   PRA Rulebook — Regulatory Reporting Instrument 2015 1.3   PRA Rulebook — Regulatory Reporting Amendment Instrument 2015 1.4   PRA Rulebook — CRR Firms: Reverse Stress Testing (Amendment to ICAA) Instrument 2015 1.5   PRA Rulebook — Change In Control Instrument 2015 1.6   PRA Rulebook — Close Links Instrument 2015 1.7   Handbook (Rulebook Consequentials No. 3) Instrument 2015 1.8   PRA Rulebook — Glossary Instrument (No. 2) 2015  Appendix 2: Supervisory statements  2.1   Supervisory Statement — Aggregation of holdings for purpose of the prudential assessment of controllers SS33/15 (see SS33/15 landing page: www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ss/2015/ss3315.aspx) 2.2   Supervisory Statement — The internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) and the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP) SS31/15 (see SS31/15 landing page: www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ss/2015/ ss3115update.aspx) 2.3   Supervisory Statement — Internal governance SS21/15 (see SS21/15 landing page: www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ss/2015/ss2115update.aspx) 2.4   Supervisory Statement — Guidelines for completing regulatory reports SS34/15 (see SS34/15 landing page: www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ss/2015/ss3415.aspx)

PRA 2015/63  Page 1 of 6  Appendix 1.1  PRA RULEBOOK: PASSPORTING INSTRUMENT 2015  Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following  powers and related   provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”):  (1) section 137G (T he PRA’s general rules);  (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers);  (3) paragraphs 19(10) and 20(4C) of Schedule 3 (EEA Passport Rights) Part III (Exercise of Passport Rights by UK firms); and  (4) paragraph 5 (4) of Schedule 4 (Treaty Rights: Notice to UK regulator)  B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule- making instruments) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Passporting Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in Annexes A and B to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on 3 August 2015.  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: Passporting Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/63  Page 2 of 6  Annex A  In this Annex, the text is all new and is not underlined.  Part  PASSPORTING  Chapter content  1.   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  2.   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ESTABLISH A BRANCH  3.   UK PURE REINSURERS ESTABLISHING A BRANCH  4.   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROVIDE CROSS BORDER SERVICES  5.   NOTICE OF CHANGE OF DETAILS TO A BRANCH  6.   NOTICE OF CHANGE OF DETAILS TO CROSS BORDER SERVICES  7.   FORM AND METHOD OF NOTIFICATION  8.   RECORD KEEPING  9.   TREATY FIRMS  10. FORMS  Links

PRA 2015/63  Page 3 of 6  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  1.1   Unless otherwise stated, this Part applies to a   UK firm   that is a   PRA-authorised person .  1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  EEA Passport Rights Regulations  means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (EEA Passport Rights) Regulations 2001.  EEA right  includes Article 4 (3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000) (Gibraltar) Order 2001.  financial institution  has the meaning in Article 4 (26) of the   CRR .  pure reinsurer  means an   insurer   whose   insurance business   is restricted to reinsurance.  UK firm  includes a   financial institution   that fulfils the conditions in Article 34   CRD .  2   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ESTABLISH A BRANCH  2.1   This chapter applies to a   UK firm   other than a   pure reinsurer .  2.2   A   UK firm   wishing to establish a   branch   within the territory of another   EEA State   for the first time under an   EEA right   other than derived from the   CRD   must notify the   PRA   of its intention  by submitting the form referred to in 10.1 (Branch Notification Form).  2.3   A   UK firm   wishing to establish a   branch   within the territory of another   EEA State   for the first time under an   EEA right   derived from the   CRD   must comply with the information requirements set out in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 1151/2014 and notify the   PRA   of its intention by submitting the form in Annex I of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 926/2014 and the form referred to in 10.3 (CRD Declaration).  3   UK PURE REINSURERS ESTABLISHING A BRANCH  3.1   This chapter applies to a   pure reinsurer .  3.2   A   pure reinsurer   establishing a   branch   within the territory of another   EEA state   for the first time under an   EEA right   must notify the   PRA   by submitting the form referred to in 10.1 (Branch notification form). Whenever possible, this notification must be made as soon as the information specified in that form is known by the   firm .

PRA 2015/63  Page 4 of 6  4   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROVIDE CROSS BORDER SERVICES  4.1   A   UK firm   intending to provide   cross border services   within the territory of another   EEA State  for the first time under an   EEA right   other than derived from the   CRD   must notify the   PRA   of its intention by submitting the form referred to in 10.2 (Cross Border Services Notification Form).  4.2   A   UK firm   intending to provide   cross border services   within the territory of another   EEA State  for the first time under an   EEA right   derived from the   CRD   must comply with the information requirements set out in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 1151/2014 and notify the  PRA   of its intention by submitting the form in Annex V of Commission Implementing Regulation 926/2014 and the form referred to in 10.3 (CRD Declaration).  5   NOTICE OF CHANGE OF DETAILS TO A BRANCH  5.1   A   UK firm   other than a   pure reinsurer   exercising an   EEA right   other than derived from the  CRD   that is required by the   EEA Passport Rights Regulations   to submit a notice of a change to a   branch   to the   PRA   must notify the   PRA   by submitting the form referred to in 10.1 (Branch Notification Form).  5.2   A   pure reinsurer   exercising an   EEA right   to establish a   branch   in another   EEA State   must notify the   PRA   of any change in the information specified in the Branch Notification Form at 10.1. Whenever possible, this notification must be made as soon as the change in information is known by the   firm .  5.3  (1)   A   UK firm   that has exercised an   EEA right   under the   CRD   and established a   branch   in another   EEA State   must comply with the information requirements set out in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 1151/2014 and notify the   PRA   of a change to the   branch   by submitting the form in Annex I of Commission Regulation 926/2014 and the form referred to in 10.3 (CRD Declaration) except where the change relates to a planned termination of the operation of the   branch .  (2)   A   UK firm   that has exercised an   EEA right   under the   CRD   and established a   branch   in another   EEA State   and that plans to terminate the operation of the   branch   must comply with the information requirements set out in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 1151/2014 and notify the   PRA   by submitting the form in Annex IV of Commission Implementing Regulation 926/2014 and the form referred to in 10.3 (CRD Declaration).  6   NOTICE OF CHANGE OF DETAILS TO CROSS BORDER SERVICES  6.1   A   UK firm   that is required by the   EEA Passport Rights Regulations   to submit a notice of a change to   cross border services   must notify the   PRA   by submitting the form referred to in 10.2 (Cross Border Services Notification Form).  7   FORM AND METHOD OF NOTIFICATION  7.1   This Chapter applies to a   UK firm   other than a   credit union .

PRA 2015/63  Page 5 of 6  7.2   A   UK firm   must submit any notice including a notice of changes under this Part or under the  EEA Passport Rights Regulations   by:  (1)   electronic mail to   pra-passporting@bankofengland.co.uk ; or  (2)   post to the   PRA : The Prudential Regulation Authority, 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA.  .  8   RECORD KEEPING  8.1   A   UK firm   which is exercising an   EEA right   must make a record of:  (1)   the services or activities it carries on from a   branch   in, or provides cross-border into, the territory of another   EEA State   under that   EEA right ; and  (2)   the details relating to those services or activities as set out in the   EEA Passport Rights Regulations   or the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 1151/2014 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 926/2014 as applicable.  8.2   A   UK firm   passporting under   MiFID   must retain the record under 8.1 for five years from the earlier of the date on which:  (1)   it was superseded by a more up-to-date record; or  (2)   the   UK firm   ceased to have a   branch   in, or carry on   cross border services   into, the territory of any   EEA State   under an   EEA right .  8.3   A   UK firm   passporting under   any   EEA right   other than derived from   MiFID   must retain the record under 8.1 for three years from the earlier of the date on which:  (1)   it was superseded by a more up-to-date record; or  (2)   the   UK firm   ceased to have a   branch   in, or carry on   cross border services   into, any  EEA State   under an   EEA right .  9   TREATY FIRMS  9.1   The   PRA   directs that a written notice from a   Treaty firm   under paragraph 5 (2) of Schedule 4 to   FSMA   must be:  (1)   addressed to the attention of the authorisations team in the   PRA ; and  (2)   delivered by one of methods set out in 9.2.  9.2   The   PRA   directs that the written notice referred to in 9.1 may be delivered by:  (1)   post to the   PRA : The Prudential Regulation Authority, 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA; or  (2)   leaving the application at the reception of the   PRA   at the address set out in (1).  9.3   Each direction in SUP 13A.3.7 of the   PRA Handbook   continues to have effect from the date the relevant direction was given to the date on which the direction in 9.1 and 9.2 has effect.

PRA 2015/63  Page 6 of 6  10   FORMS  10.1   The Branch Notification Form can be found here (see Appendix 1a).  10.2   The Cross Border Services Notification Form can be found here (see Appendix 1b).  10.3   The CRD Declaration can be found here (see Appendix 1c).

Appendix 1.2  Page   1   of   36  PRA 2015/74  PRA RULEBOOK: REGULATORY REPORTING INSTRUMENT 2015  Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following  powers and related provisions in the Financial   Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”):  (1) section 137G (T he PRA’s general rules);   and  (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers).  B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule-making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Regulatory Reporting Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in the Annex to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on   1 January 2016 .  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: Regulatory Reporting Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

Appendix 1.2  Page   2   of   36  Annex  In this Annex, the text is all new and is not underlined.  Part  REGULATORY REPORTING  Chapter content  1.   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  2.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   DATA ITEMS  3.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   FREQUENCY AND PERIOD  4.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   SUBMISSION DATES  5.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   SUBMISSION METHOD  6.   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUPS  7.   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 1  8.   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 2.1  9.   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 3  10. REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 4  11. REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 5  12. FINANCIAL CONGLOMERATES  13. PRUDENT VALUATION REPORTING  14. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS   –   WAIVERS  15. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS   –   REQUIREMENTS FOR MEMBERS OF FINANCIAL CONGLOMERATES  16. DATA ITEMS  ANNEX 1   –   LIQUIDITY DEFINITIONS  Links

Appendix 1.2  Page   3   of   36  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  1.1   Unless otherwise stated, this   Part applies to   every   firm   permitted to carry on   the   regulated  activities   listed in column ( 1 ) of the table in   6 .1 , except   an   incoming EEA firm   with   permission  for   cross border   services   only .  1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  administering a home finance transaction  means any of   administering a regulated mortgage contract ,   administering a home purchase plan ,   administering a home reversion plan   or   administering a regulated sale and rent back agreement .  administering a home purchase plan  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 63F(2) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  administering a home reversion plan  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 63B(2) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  administering a regulated mortgage contract  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 61(2) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  administering a regulated sale and rent back agreement  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 63J(2) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  banking   and investment services conglomerate  means a   financial conglomerate   that is identified in paragraph 4.3 of   GENPRU 3 Annex 1 R   (Types of financial conglomerate) in the   PRA Handbook   as a ‘ banking and investment services conglomerate ’ .  BIPRU  means the Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms in the   PRA Handbook .  credit institution  (1)   a credit institution authorised under the   CRD ; or  (2)   an institution wh ich would satisfy the requirements for authorisation as a  credit institution under the   CRD   if it had its registered office (or if it does not  have a registered office, its head office) in an   EEA State .

Appendix 1.2  Page   4   of   36  CRR permission  means a permission given to a   firm   by the   PRA   under powers conferred on the   PRA  by the   CRR.  data element  means a discrete fact or individual piece of information relating to a particular field within a   data item .  data items  means one or more related   data elements   that are grouped together into a prescribed format and required to be submitted by a   firm .  entering as provider into a funeral plan contract  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 59 of the   Regulated Activities Order.  entering into a home finance transaction  means any of   entering into a regulated mortgage contract, entering into a home purchase plan, entering into a home reversion plan   or   entering into a regulated sale and rent back agreement.  entering into a home purchase plan  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 63F(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  entering into a home reversion plan  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 63B(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  entering into a regulated mortgage contract  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 61(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  entering into a regulated sale and rent back agreement  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 63J(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 51ZE of the   Regulated Activities Order .  establishing, operating or winding-up a regulated collective investment scheme  means   establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme   if the  scheme   is a   regulated collective investment scheme .  FINREP firm

Appendix 1.2  Page   5   of   36  means:  (1)   a   credit institution   or   investment firm   subject to the   CRR   that is also subject to article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002; or  (2)   a   credit institution   other than one referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 that prepares its consolidated accounts in conformity with the international   accounting   standards   adopted   in   accordance   with   the procedure laid down in article 6(2) of that Regulation.  [Note: article 99 of the   CRR ]  FOS   Ltd.  means the   body corporate   established under paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 17 to   FSMA  (The Scheme Operator) (as originally enacted).  home finance administration  mea ns any of the   regulated activities   of:  (1)   administering a regulated mortgage contract ;  (2)   administering a home purchase plan ;  (3)   administering a home reversion plan ;  (4)   administering a regulated sale and rent back agreement ; or  (5)   agreeing to carry on a regulated activity   in (1) to (4).  home finance administrator  means a   firm   with   permission   (or which ought to have   permission ) for   administering a home finance transaction .  home finance provider  means a   firm   with   permission   (or which ought to have   permission ) for   entering into a home finance transaction .  home   finance   providing activity  means any   of the   regulated activities   of:  (1)   entering into a regulated mortgage contract ;  (2)   entering into a regulated sale and rent back agreement ;  (3)   entering into a home purchase plan ;  (4)   entering into a home reversion plan ; or  (5)   agreeing to carry on a regulated activity   in (1) to (4).  individual consolidation permission  means a   CRR permission   under Article 9 of the   CRR .  insurance   conglomerate

Appendix 1.2  Page   6   of   36  means a   financial conglomerate   that is identified in paragraph 4.3 of   GENPRU 3 Annex 1 R   (Types of financial conglomerate) in the   PRA Handbook   as an   insurance conglomerate .  intra-group liquidity modification  means a modification to the   overall liquidity adequacy rule   of the kind described in  BIPRU   12.8.7G in the   PRA Handbook   as in effect on 30 September 2015 granted to a  firm   and in effect on that date.  intra - group transactions  has the meaning given in point (18) of Article 2 of the   Financial Groups Directive.   IPRU(INS)  means the Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers   in the   PRA Handbook .  IPRU(FSOC)  means the Interim Prudential sourcebook for Friendly Societies   in the   PRA Handbook .  lead   regulated   firm  means a   firm   which is the subject of the financial supervision requirements of an  overseas regulator   in accordance with an agreement between the   PRA   and that regulator relating to the financial supervision of   firms   whose head office is within the country of that regulator.  This definition is not related t o the defined term ‘ UK lead regulated firm ’ .  managing   dormant account funds (including the investment of such funds)  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 63N(1)(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  meeting   of repayment claims  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 63N(1)(a) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  non - EEA bank  means   a   bank   which is a   body corporate   or   partnership   formed under the law of any country or territory outside the   EEA .  RAG  means a   regulated activity group .  regulated activity group  means a set of one or more   regulated activities   referred to in determining a   firm ’s   data item   submission requirements.  reporting level  means (in relation to a   data item )   the basis on which   that   data item   is prepared (being either:

Appendix 1.2  Page   7   of   36  (1)   an   individual basis; or  (2)   the basis of a group )   and, if it is prepared on the basis of a group, the type  of   group   (such   as   a   UK   DLG   by   modification   or   a   non-UK   DLG   by modification (firm level) ).  requirement  means a requirement included in a   firm 's   Part 4A permission   under section 55L  FSMA   (Imposition of requirements by the FCA), section 55M   FSMA   (Imposition of Requirements by the PRA) or section 55O   FSMA   (Imposition of requirements on acquisition of control).  risk concentration  has the meaning given in point (19) of Article 2 of the   Financial Groups Directive.  sole trader  means an individual who is a   firm .  third-country financial conglomerate  means a   financial conglomerate   that is of a type that falls under Article 5(3) of the  Financial Groups Directive .  UK consolidation group  means the   consolidation group   of a   firm   to which supervision on a   consolidated basis  by the   PRA   applies in accordance with Article 111 of   CRD.  UK- regulated EEA financial conglomerate  means a   financial conglomerate   (other than a   third-country financial conglomerate ) that satisfies one of the following conditions:  (1)   GENPRU   3.1.29   R   (Capital   adequacy   calculations   for   financial conglomerates ) in the   PRA Handbook   applies with respect to it; or  (2)   a   firm   that   is   a   member   of   that   financial   conglomerate   is   subject   to obligations imposed through its   Part 4A permission   to ensure that   financial conglomerate   meets levels of capital adequacy based or stated to be based on Annex I of the   Financial Groups Directive .  whole-firm liquidity modification  means   a modification   to the   overall liquidity adequacy rule   of the kind described in  BIPRU   12.8.22G in the   PRA Handbook   as in effect on 30 September 2015 granted to a   firm   and in effect on that date.  1.3   Unless   otherwise defined , any italicised expression used in this Part:  (1)   listed in Annex 1 (Liquidity definitions) to this Part has the meaning specified in the  PRA Handbook   as in effect on 30 September 2015; and  (2)   in the   CRR,   has the same meaning as in the   CRR .

Appendix 1.2  Page   8   of   36  2   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   DATA ITEMS  2.1   Unless otherwise stated, a   firm   permitted to carry on any of the   regulated activities   within any  RAG   set out in column (1) of the table in   6 .1   must   submit   to the   PRA   the   data items ,  applicable to the   relevant   RAG   as   specified in   the   corresponding   rule   referred to in column (2)  of that table .  2.2   Where, in accordance with 2.1, a   firm   is required to submit   data items   for more than one  RAG , that   firm   must only submit the   data item   of the same name and purpose in respect of the lowest numbered   RAG   applicable to it,   RAG   1 being the lowest and   RAG   5 the highest.  2.3   Where, but for 2.2, a   firm   is required to submit   data items   for more than one   RAG   and this includes the submission of   data items   in respect of fees, the   FOS   Ltd . or   FSCS   levy, or  threshold conditions , that   firm   must only submit these   data items   if required to do so for the lowest numbered of the   RAGs   applicable to the   firm .  2.4   Unless otherwise stated, any   data items   to be submitted in accordance with 2.1 to 2.3 by a  non-EEA bank , or an   EEA bank , should cover the activities of the   branch   operation in the   UK  only.  2.5   A   firm   that is a member of a   financial conglomerate   must also submit   data items   as required by Chapter 12.  2.6   A   UK bank   and a   UK designated investment firm   must also submit Prudent Valuation Returns as required by Chapter 13.  3   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   FREQUENCY AND PERIOD  3.1   Where a   firm   is required to submit   data items   in accordance with Chapter 2, it must submit  this in formation at the frequency and in respect of the periods specified in   the   rule   referred to  in   the relevant row of   column (3) of the table   in   6 .1 .  4   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   SUBMISSION DATES  4.1   Where a   firm   is required to submit   data items   in accordance with Chapter 2, it must submit  this information by the due date specified in   the   rule   referred to in   the relevant row of   column  (4) of the table   in   6 .1 .  5   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS   –   SUBMISSION METHOD  5.1   Unless otherwise stated, w here a   firm   is required to submit   data items   in accordance with  Chapter 2, it must submit this information by   electronic means made available by the   PRA .  5.2   5.1 does not apply to:  (1)   credit unions   solely in relation to the reporting requirement for   RAG   1   regulated  acti vities ; i n such cases, t he following submission methods apply:  (a)   Post   to the Bank of England for postal submission:  Regulatory Data Group Statistics and Regulatory Data Division (HO5 A-B) Bank of England Threadneedle Street London EC2R 8AH

Appendix 1.2  Page   9   of   36  (b)   Leaving the report marked for the attention of "Regulatory Data Group, Statistics and Regulatory Data Division (TS 5 A-B) at the Bank of England, Threadneedle Street, London, EC2R 8AH, and obtaining a dated receipt  (c)   Electronic mail:  ( CreditUnionReporting @ BankofEngland.co.uk) or fax (020 7601 3334) to the  Regulatory Data Group of the Bank of England  (d)   Online submission via the appropriate systems accessible from the   PRA 's website.  (2)   firms   in   RAG   2.1 in relation to the reporting requirements for   RAG   2.1   regulated activities ; and  (3)   those   data items   specified as "No standard format".  5.3   SUP 16.3.6 R to SUP 16.3.10 G in the supervision manual in the   PRA Handbook   apply to  data items   specified as “No standard format . ”  6   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUPS  6.1   Unless otherwise indicated,   firms   must comply with the rules specified in the following table (which set out the   data items , frequency and submission periods as applicable to each   RAG ) in accordance with Chapters 2, 3 and 4.  (1)   (2)   (3)   (4)  RAG  number  Regulated   Activities   Rules   containing:  applicable   data items   reporting  frequency /  period  due  date  RAG   1   •   accepting deposits  •   meeting of repayment  claims  •   managing dormant  account funds (including  the investment of such  funds)  7.1, except that the requirement to submit  data items   FSA001 and FSA002 on a  consolidated basis   does not apply to  FINREP firms  7.2   7.3  RAG   2.1   •   effecting contracts of  insurance  •   carrying out contracts of  insurance  • entering as provider into  a funeral plan   contract  8.1, 8.2, 8.3   8.1, 8.2, 8.3   8.1, 8.2, 8.3  RAG   3   •   dealing in investment s  as principal  9.1  9.2 for   UK designated investment firms ,  except that the requirement to submit  data items   FSA001 and FSA002 on a  consolidated basis   does not apply to  9.1  9.3 for   UK  designated  investment firms  9.1  9.4

Appendix 1.2  Page   10   of   36  (1)   (2)   (3)   (4)  RAG  number  Regulated   Activities   Rules   containing:  applicable   data items   reporting  frequency /  period  due  date  FINREP firms  RAG   4   •   managing investments  •   establishing, operating  or   winding - up a collective  investment scheme  10. 2   for   UK designated investment firms ,  except   that the requirement to submit  data items   FSA001 and FSA002 on   a  consolidated basis   does not apply to  FINREP firms  10. 3   for   UK  designated  investment firms  10. 4  RAG   5   •   home finance  administration   or   home  finance providing activity  11.2   11.2   11.2  7   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 1  7.1   The   applicable   data items   referred to in   the table in   6 .1   are set out according to   firm   type in  the table below :  RAG   1   Prudential category of   firm , applicable   data items   and reporting format (1)  UK bank   Building  society  Non - EEA  bank  EEA bank  that has  permission   to accept deposits and that has its registered office (or, if it has no registered office, its head office) outside the EU  Credit union   Dormant  account fund  operator  (12)  Description  of   data item  Annual report  and accounts  No standard format  No standard format, but in English  No standard format  Annual report  and accounts  No standard

Appendix 1.2  Page   11   of   36  RAG   1   Prudential category of   firm , applicable   data items   and reporting format (1)  UK bank   Building  society  Non - EEA  bank  EEA bank  that has  permission   to  accept  deposits   and  that has its  registered  office (or, if it  has no  registered  office, its  head office)  outside the  EU  Credit union   Dormant  account fund  operator  (1 2 )  Description  of   data item  of the   mixed -  activity  holding  company   ( 7 )  format  Solvency  statement ( 8 )  No standard  format  Balance  sheet  FSA001 (2)   FSA001 (2)   CQ; CY  Income  statement  FSA002 (2)   FSA002 (2)   FSA002   CQ; CY  Capital  adequacy  CQ; CY  Market risk   FSA005 ( (2),  ( 3 ) )  FSA005 ((2),  ( 3 ) )  Market risk   –  supplementar  y  FSA006 ( 4 )  Large  exposures  CQ; CY  Exposures  between   core  UK   group   and  non - core  large  exposures  FSA018 ( 1 0 )   FSA018 ( 1 0 )

Appendix 1.2  Page   12   of   36  RAG   1   Prudential category of   firm , applicable   data items   and reporting format (1)  UK bank   Building  society  Non - EEA  bank  EEA bank  that has  permission   to  accept  deposits   and  that has its  registered  office (or, if it  has no  registered  office, its  head office)  outside the  EU  Credit union   Dormant  account fund  operator  (1 2 )  Description  of   data item  group  Liquidity  (other than  stock)  FSA011   CQ; CY  Forecast data   FSA014 ( 9 )   FSA014 ( 9 )  Solo  consolidation  data  FSA016 ( 5 )   FSA016 ( 5 )  Interest rate  gap report  FSA017   FSA017  Sectoral  information,  including  arrears and  impairment  FSA015  (2)  FSA015  (2)  IRB portfolio  risk  FSA045 ( 11 )   FSA045 ( 11 )  Daily Flows   FSA047  ( (1 3 ), ( 1 6 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA047  ( (1 3 ), ( 1 6 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA047  ((1 3 ), (1 5 ),  ( 1 6 ) and ( 1 8 ))  FSA047  ( (1 3 ), (1 5 ),  ( 1 6 ) and ( 1 8 ))  Enhanced  Mismatch  Report  FSA048  ( (1 3 ), ( 1 6 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA048  ( (1 3 ), ( 1 6 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA048  ( (1 3 ), (1 5 ),  ( 1 6 ) and ( 1 8 ))  FSA048  (Notes 1 3 ,  1 5 ,   1 6   and  1 8 )

Appendix 1.2  Page   13   of   36  RAG   1   Prudential category of   firm , applicable   data items   and reporting format (1)  UK bank   Building  society  Non - EEA  bank  EEA bank  that has  permission   to  accept  deposits   and  that has its  registered  office (or, if it  has no  registered  office, its  head office)  outside the  EU  Credit union   Dormant  account fund  operator  (1 2 )  Description  of   data item  Liquidity  Buffer  Qualifying  Securities  FSA050  ((1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA050  ( (1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  Funding  Concentration  FSA051  ((1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA051  ((1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  Pricing data   FSA052  ((1 4 ), ( 1 8 )  and ( 19 ))  FSA052  ( (1 4 ), ( 1 8 )  and ( 19 ))  Retail and  corporate  funding  FSA053  ( (1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  FSA053  ((1 4 ), ( 1 7 )  and ( 1 8 ))  (1)   When submitting the completed   data item   required, a   firm   must use the format of the  data item   set out in Chapter 18.  (2)   Firms   that are members of a   UK consolidation group   must also submit this data item on a   UK   consolidation group   basis.  (3)   For   PRA - authorised persons ,   lines 62 to 64 only are applicable. These lines apply to a  firm   that applies add-ons to their market risk capital calculation under the RNIV framework.  (4)   Only applicable to   firms   with a   CRR   permission   to use internal models in accordance with Part 3, Title IV, Chapter 5 of the CRR.  (5)   Only applicable to a   firm   that has an   individual consolidation permission .

Appendix 1.2  Page   14   of   36  ( 6 )   This will be applicable to   firms   (other than building societies) that are members of a   UK  consolidation group   on the reporting date.  ( 7 )   Only applicable to a   firm   whose ultimate   parent is a   mixed - activity holding company .  ( 8 )   Only applicable to a   firm   that is a   partnership , when the report must be submitted by  each   partner .  ( 9 )   Members of a   UK consolidation group   should only submit this   data item   at the   UK  consolidation group   level.  (1 0 )   Only applicable to a   firm   that has both a   core UK group   and a   non - core large exposures  group .  (1 1 )   Only applicable to   firms   that have an   CRR   permission   to use the   IRB Approach  (1 2 )   Only applies to a   dormant account fund operator   that does not fall into any of the other  prudential categories in this table.  (1 3 )   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the followi ng bases that are  applicable.  (a)   It must complete it on   an individual   basis (including on the basis of the   firm's   UK  branch ). Therefore even if it has a n   individual consolidation permission   it must  complete the item on an unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   DLG by default   and is a   UK   lead  regulated firm , it must complete the item on the basis of that group.  (c)   If it is   a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification , it must  complete the item on the basis of that group   and (a) does not apply .  (d)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   non - UK DLG by modification , it must  complete the item on the   basis of that group.  (1 4 )   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the following bases that are  applicable.  (a)   It must complete it on   an individual   basis (including on the basis of the   firm's   UK  branch ) unless it is a   group liquidity   reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification .  Therefore even if it has a n   individual consolidation permission   it must complete  the item on an unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by   modification , it must  complete the item on the basis of that group.  (15)   (a)   If the   firm   has a   whole - firm liquidity modification   it must complete this item on the  basis of the whole   firm   (or at any other   reporting level   the   whole - firm liquidity  modificati on   may require) and not just its   UK   branch .  (b)   If the   firm   does not have a   whole - firm liquidity modification , there is no obligation  to report this item.  (1 6 )   (a)   This item must be reported in the reporting currency.

Appendix 1.2  Page   15   of   36  (b)   If any   data element   is in a currency or currencies other than the reporting  currency, all currencies (including the reporting currency) must be combined into  a figure in the reporting currency.  (c)   In addition, all   material currencies   (which may include the reporting curr ency)  must each be recorded separately (translated into the reporting currency).  However if:  (i)   the reporting frequency is (whether under a   rule   or under a   waiver )  quarterly or less than quarterly; or  (ii)   the only   material currency   is the reporting currency,  then (c) does not apply.  (d)   If there are more than three   material currencies   for this   data item , ( c ) only applies  to the three largest in amount. A   firm   must identify the largest in amount in  accordance with the following procedure.  (i)   For each currency, take the largest of the asset or liability figure as  referred to in the definition of   material currency .  (ii)   Take the three largest figures from   the resulting list of amounts.  (e)   The date as at which the calculations for the purposes of the definition of   material  currency   are carried out is the last day of the reporting period in question.  (f)   The reporting currency for this   data item   is whichever of the following currencies  the   firm   chooses, namely USD (the United States Dollar), EUR (the euro), GBP  (sterling), JPY (the Japanese Yen), CHF (the Swiss Franc), CAD (the Canadian  Dollar) or SEK (the Swedish Krona).  ( 1 7 )   ( 1 6 ) applies , except that sub paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) do not apply, meaning that  material currencies   must not be recorded separately.  ( 1 8 )   Unless otherwise stated in the relevant   modification,   a ny changes to reporting  requirements caused by a   firm   receiving an   in tra - group liquidity modification   or a   whole -  firm liquidity modification   (or a variation to one) do not take effect until the first day of the  next reporting period applicable under the changed reporting requirements for the   data  item   in question if the   fir m   receives that   intra - group liquidity modification ,   whole - firm  liquidity modification   or variation part of the way through such a period.   If the change is  that the   firm   does not have to report a particular   data item   or does not have to report it at  a part icular   reporting level , the   firm   must nevertheless report that item or at that  reporting level   for any reporting period that has already begun.  ( 19 )   This   data item   must be reported only in the currencies named in FSA052, so that  liabilities in GBP are reported in GBP in rows 1 to 4, those in USD are reported in USD  in rows 5 to 8, and those in Euro are reported in Euro in rows 9 to 12. Liabilities in other  currencie s are not to be reported.  7.2   The   applicable reporting frequencies for submission of   data items   and periods referred to in  7.1   are set out in the table below according to   firm   type. Reporting frequencies are calculated  from a   firm's   accounting reference   date , unless indicated otherwise.

Appendix 1.2  Page   16   of   36  RAG   1  Data item   Unconsolidated   UK  banks   and   building  societies  Individual  consolidated   UK  banks   and  building societies  Report on a   UK  consolidation group   or,  as applicable,   defined  liquidity group   basis by  UK banks   and   building  societies  Other  members of  RAG   1  Annual report  and accounts  Annual ly   Annual ly  Annual report  and accounts of  the mixed -  activity holding  company  Annual ly  Solvency  statement  Annual ly  CQ   Quarterly  CY   Annually ( 1 )  FSA001   Quarterly   Half yearly  FSA002   Quarterly   Half yearly   Half yearly  FSA005   Quarterly   Half yearly  FSA006   Quarterly  FSA011   Quarterly  FSA014   Half yearly  FSA015   Quarterly   Half yearly  FSA016   Half yearly  FSA017   Quarterly   Half   yearly  FSA018   Quarterly  FSA045   Quarterly   Half yearly  FSA047   Daily, weekly,  monthly or quarterly  (( 2 ), ( 3 ) and ( 6 ))  Daily, weekly, monthly or  quarterly (( 2 ), ( 5 ) and ( 6 ))  Daily, weekly,  monthly or  quarterly  (( 2 ),( 4 ) and  ( 6 ))

Appendix 1.2  Page   17   of   36  RAG   1  Data item   Unconsolidated   UK  banks   and   building  societies  Individual  consolidated   UK  banks   and  building societies  Report on a   UK  consolidation group   or,  as applicable,   defined  liquidity group   basis by  UK banks   and   building  societies  Other  members of  RAG   1  FSA048   Daily,   weekly,  monthly or quarterly  (( 2 ), ( 3 ) and ( 6 ))  Daily, weekly, monthly or  quarterly (( 2 ), ( 5 ) and ( 6 ))  Daily, weekly,  monthly or  quarterly  (( 2 ),( 4 ) and  ( 6 ))  FSA050   Monthly (( 2 )   Monthly (( 2 ))   Monthly (( 2 ))  FSA051   Monthly (( 2 ))   Monthly (( 2 ))   Monthly   ( 2 )  FSA052   Weekly or monthly  (( 2 ) and ( 7 ))  Weekly or monthly (( 2 ) and  ( 8 ))  Weekly or  monthly (( 2 )  and ( 7 ))  FSA053   Quarterly ( 2 )   Quarterly (   2 )   Quarterly ( 2 )  (1)   The annual report required from a   credit union   by 7.1 must be made up for the same period as the audited accounts published by the   credit union   in accordance with section 3A of the Friendly and Industrial and Provident Societies Act 1968 or provided in accordance with article 49 of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985 (as appropriate).  (2)   Reporting frequencies and reporting periods for this   data item   are calculated on a calendar year basis and not from a   firm's   accounting reference date . In particular:  (a)   A week means the period beginning on Saturday and ending on Friday.  (b)   A month begins on the first day of the calendar month and ends on the last day of that month.  (c)   Quarters end on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December.  (d)   Daily means each   business day .  All periods are calculated by reference to London time.  (3)   If the report is on an individual basis (and the   firm   is a   UK   firm ) the reporting frequency is as follows:  (a)   if the   firm   does not have an   intra - group liquidity modification   the frequency is:

Appendix 1.2  Page   18   of   36  (i)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (ii)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm ;  (b)   if the   firm   is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   non - UK DLG by   modification  ( firm   level ) the frequency is:  (i)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (ii)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm ;  (c)   the frequency is quarterly if the   firm   is a   group   liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK  DLG by modification .  ( 4 )   (a)   If the report is on   an individual   basis (and the   firm   is not a   UK   firm ) the reporting  frequency is as follows:  (i)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (ii)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm .  (b)   If the   firm   has a   whole - firm liquidity modification   ( a ) does not apply and instead  the frequency of   individual   reporting is quarterly (or whatever other frequency  the   whole - firm   liquidity modification   requires).  ( 5 )   (a)   If the report is by reference to the   firm's   DLG by default   the reporting frequency  is:  (i)   weekly if the   group liquidity standard frequency reporting conditions   are  met;  (ii)   monthly if the   group liquidity   low frequency reporting conditions   are  met.  (b)   If the report is by reference to the   firm's   UK   DLG by modification   the reporting  frequency is:  (i)   weekly if the   group liquidity standard frequency reporting conditions   are  met;  (ii)   monthly if the   group liquidity low frequency reporting conditions   are  met.  (c)   If the report is by reference to the   firm's   non - UK DLG by modification   the  reporting frequency is quarterly.  ( 6 )   (a)   If the reporting frequency is otherwise weekly, the item is to be reported on  every   business day   if (and for as long as) there is a   firm - specific liquidity stress  or   market liquidity stress   in relation to the   firm ,   branch   or group in question.  (b)   If th e reporting frequency is otherwise monthly, the item is to be reported  weekly if (and for as long as) there is a   firm - specific liquidity stress   or   market  liquidity stress   in relation to the   firm ,   branch   or group in question.  (c)   A   firm   must ensure that i t would be able at all times to meet the requirements  for daily or weekly reporting under paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) even if there is no   firm -

Appendix 1.2  Page   19   of   36  specific liquidity stress   or   market liquidity stress   and none is expected.  ( 7 )   If the report is on   an individual   basis (including by reference to the   firm's   UK  branch ) the reporting frequency is as follows:  (a)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (b)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm .  ( 8 )   If the   report is by reference to the   firm's   UK   DLG by modification   the reporting  frequency is:  (a)   weekly if the   group liquidity standard frequency reporting conditions   are met;  (b)   monthly if the   group liquidity low frequency reporting conditions   are met.  7.3   The   applicable due dates for submission referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table  below. The due dates are the last day of the periods given in the table below following the  relevant reporting frequency period set out in   7.2 ,   unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   1  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half yearly   Annual ly  Annual report  and accounts  80 business days (1) 7 months (2)  Annual report  and accounts  of the mixed- activity holding company  7 months  Solvency statement  3 months  CQ   1 month  CY   6 months  FSA001   20   business  days  45   business  days  FSA002   20   business  days  45   business  days  FSA005   20   business  days  45   business  days  FSA006   20   business  days

Appendix 1.2  Page   20   of   36  RAG   1  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half yearly   Annual ly  FSA011   15   business  days  FSA014   30   business  days   (3);  45   business  days   (4)  FSA015   30   business  days  45   business  days  FSA016   30   business  days  FSA017   20   business  days  45   business  days  FSA018   45   business  days  FSA045   20   business  days  45   business  days  FSA047   22.00 hours  (London time)  on the  business day  immediately  following the  last day of the  reporting  period for the  item in  question  22.00 hours  (London time)  on the  business day  immediately  following the  last day of the  reporting  period for the  item in  question  15   business  days  15   business  days   or one  Month   (5)  FSA048   22.00 hours  (London time)  on the  business day  immediately  following the  last day of the  reporting  period for the  item in  question  22.00 hours  (London time)  on the  business day  immediately  following the  last day of the  reporting  period for the  item in  question  15   business  days  15   business  days   or one  Month   (5)  FSA050   15   business

Appendix 1.2  Page   21   of   36  RAG   1  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half yearly   Annual ly  days  FSA051   15   business  days  FSA052   22.00 hours  (London time)  on the  second  business day  immediately  following the  last day of the  reporting  period for the  item in  question  15   business  days  FSA053   15   business  days  (1)   Applicable to   UK banks   and   dormant account fund operators .  (2)   Applicable to   non - EEA banks .  (3)   Applicable to unconsolidated and individual consolidated reports.  (4)   Applicable to UK consolidation group reports.  (5)   It is one   month   if the report relates to a   non - UK DLG by modification   or the   firm   has a  whole - firm liquidity modification .  8   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 2.1  8.1   The   financial reporting requirements for   RAG   2.1 activities for   insurers , excluding   friendly  societies , are set out in   IPRU(INS) .  8.2   The   financial reporting requirements for   RAG   2.1 activities for   friendly societies   are set out in  IPRU(FSOC) .  8.3   A   UK ISPV   must submit a copy of its annual audited financial statements within 3 months of its   accounting reference date , but the report is only required if it was audited as a result of a statutory provision other than under   FSMA .  9   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 3  9.1   A   lead regulated firm   must submit a copy of its annual report and audited accounts within 80 business days from its   accounting reference date.

Appendix 1.2  Page   22   of   36  9.2   The   applicable   data items   referred to in the table in   6.1   for a   UK designated investment firm  are set out in the table below:  RAG   3  Description of   data item   Applicable   data items   (1)  Annual report and   accounts   No standard format  Annual report and accounts   of the   mixed - activity holding  company   (5)  No standard format  Solvency statement   No standard format (6)  Balance sheet   FSA001 (2)  Income statement   FSA002 (2)  Market risk   FSA005 ((2) and (16))  Market risk-supplementary   FSA006 (3)  Exposures between   core UK group   and   non - core large  exposures group  FSA018 (7)  Solo consolidation data   FSA016 ((8)  Pillar 2 questionnaire   FSA019 (4)  IRB portfolio risk   FSA045 (15)  Daily flows   FSA047 ((9), (11) and (13))  Enhanced Mismatch Report   FSA048 ((9), (11) and (13))  Liquidity Buffer Qualifying Securities   FSA050 ((10), (12) and (13))  Funding Concentration   FSA051 ((10), (12) and (13))  Pricing data   FSA052 ((10), (13) and (14))  Retail and corporate funding   FSA053 ((10), (12) and (13))  (1)   When submitting the completed   data item   required, a   firm   must use the format of the   data item   set out in Chapter 18.  (2)   Firms   that are members of a consolidation group must also submit this report on a consolidation group basis.  (3)   Only applicable to   firms   with a   CRR   permission   to use internal models in accordance with Title IV, Chapter 5 of the   CRR .

Appendix 1.2  Page   23   of   36  (4)   Only applicable to   UK designated investment firms   that:  (a)   are subject to consolidated supervision under   the   CRR , except those that  are either included within the consolidated supervision of a group that  includes a UK   credit institution , or  (b)   are not subject to consolidated supervision under the   CRR .  A   UK designated investment firm   under (a) must complete the report on the  basis of its   consolidation group . A   UK designated investment firm   under (b)  must complete the report on the basis of its   individual   position.  (5)   Only applicable to a   firm   whose ultimate parent is a   mixed activi ty holding  company .  (6)   Only applicable to a firm that is a   sole trader   or a   partnership , when the report  must be submitted by each   partner .  (7)   Only applicable to a   firm   that has both a   core UK group   and a   non - core large  exposures group .  ( 8 )   Only applicable to a   firm   with an   individual consolidation permission  ( 9 )   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the following bases (if  applicable).  (a)   It must complete it on   an individual   basis. Therefore even if it has an  individual   consolidation permission   it must complete the item on an  unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   DLG by default   and is a   UK lead  regulated firm , it must complete the item on the basis of   that group.  (c)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification , it must  complete the item on the basis of that group   and (a) does not apply .  (d)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   non - UK DLG by modification , it  must c omplete the item on the basis of that group.  (1 0 )   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the following bases that  are applicable.  (a)   It must complete it on   an individual   basis unless it is a   group liquidity  reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by   modification . Therefore even if it has an  individual consolidation permission   it must complete the item on an  unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification , it must  complet e the item on the basis of that group.  ( 1 1 )   (a)   This item must be reported in the reporting currency.  (b)   If any   data element   is in a currency or currencies other than the reporting  currency, all currencies (including the reporting currency) must be  combined into a figure in the reporting currency.

Appendix 1.2  Page   24   of   36  (c)   In addition, all   material currencies   (which may include the reporting  currency) must each be recorded separately (translated into the reporting  currency).  However if:  (i)   the reporting frequency is (whether under a   rule   or under a  waiver ) quarterly or less than quarterly; or  (ii)   the only   material currency   is the reporting currency,  then (c) does not apply.  (d)   If there are more than three   material currencies   for this   data item , ( c ) only  applies to the three largest in amount. A   firm   must identify the largest in  amount in accordance with the following procedure.  (i) For each currency, take the largest of the asset or liability figure as  referred to in the definition of   material currency .  (ii) Take the three largest figures from th e resulting list of amounts.  (e)   The date as at which the calculations for the purposes of the definition of  material currency   are carried out is the last day of the reporting period in  question.  (f)   The reporting currency for this   data item   is whichev er of the following  currencies the   firm   chooses, namely USD (the United States Dollar), EUR  (the euro), GBP (sterling), JPY (the Japanese Yen), CHF (the Swiss  Franc), CAD (the Canadian Dollar) or SEK (the Swedish Krona).  (1 2 )   ( 1 1 ) applies, except that su b paragraphs ( c ), ( d ) and ( e ) do not apply, meaning  that   material currencies   must not be recorded separately.  (1 3 )   Unless otherwise stated in the relevant   modification,   any   changes to reporting  requirements caused by a   firm   receiving an   intra - group   liquidity modification   (or  a variation to one) do not take effect until the first day of the next reporting  period applicable under the changed reporting requirements for the   data item   in  question if the   firm   receives that   intra - group liquidity modificatio n   or variation  part of the way through such a period. If the change is that the   firm   does not  have to report a particular   data item   or does not have to report it at a particular  reporting level , the   firm   must nevertheless report that item or at that   report ing  level   for any reporting period that has already begun.  (1 4 )   This   data item   must be reported only in the currencies named in FSA052, so  that liabilities in GBP are reported in GBP in rows 1 to 4, those in USD are  reported in USD in rows 5 to 8, and t hose in Euro are reported in Euro in rows 9  to 12. Liabilities in other currencies are not to be reported.  (1 5 )   Only applicable to   firms   that have   a   CRR   permission   to use the   IRB   A pproach .  (1 6 )   Lines 62 to 64 only are applicable. These lines apply to a   firm   that applies add -  ons to their market risk capital calculation under the RNIV framework.

Appendix 1.2  Page   25   of   36  9.3   The applicable reporting frequencies for submission of   data items   and periods referred to in  9. 2   are set out in the table below.   Reporting frequencies are calculated from a   firm's  accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   3  Data item   Reporting frequency  Annual report and accounts   Annually  Annual report and accounts   of the   mixed -  activity holding company  Annually  Solvency statement   Annually  FSA001   Quarterly  FSA002   Quarterly  FSA005   Quarterly  FSA006   Quarterly  FSA016   Half yearly  FSA018   Quarterly  FSA019   Annually  FSA045   Quarterly  FSA047   Daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly ((1), (2) and (3))  FSA048   Daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly ((1), (2) and (3))  FSA050   Monthly (1)  FSA051   Monthly (1)  FSA052   Weekly or monthly ((1) and (4))  FSA053   Quarterly (1)  (1)   Reporting frequencies and reporting periods for this   data item   are calculated on a calendar year basis and not from a   firm's   accounting reference date . In particular:  (a)   A week means the period beginning on Saturday and ending on Friday.  (b)   A month begins on the first day of the calendar month and ends on the last day of that month.  (c)   Quarters end on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December.

Appendix 1.2  Page   26   of   36  (d)   Daily means each   business day .  All periods are calculated by reference to London time.  Any changes to reporting requirements caused by a   firm   receiving an   intra - group  liquidity modification   (or a variation to one) do not take effect until the first day of the  next reporting period applicable under the changed reporting requirements if the   fi rm  receives that   intra - group liquidity modification   or variation part of the way through such a  period, unless the   intra - group liquidity modification   says otherwise.  (2)   If the report is on   an individual   basis the reporting frequency is as follows:  (a)   if the   firm   does not have an   intra - group liquidity modification   the frequency is:  (i)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (ii)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm ;  (b)   if the   firm   is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   non - UK DLG by modification  (firm level)   the frequency is:  (i)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (ii)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm ;  (c)   the frequency is quarterly if the   firm   is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK  DLG by modification .  (3)   (a)   If the reporting frequency is otherwise weekly, the item is to be reported  on every   business day   if (and for as long as) there is a   firm - sp ecific  liquidity stress   or   market liquidity stress   in relation to the   firm   or group in  question.  (b)   If the reporting frequency is otherwise monthly, the item is to be  reported weekly if (and for as long as) there is a   firm - specific liquidity  stress   or   market liquidity stress   in relation to the   firm   or group in  question.  (c)   A   firm   must ensure that it would be able at all times to meet the  requirements for daily or weekly reporting under paragraph ( a ) or ( b )  even if there is no   firm - specific liquidity   stress   or   market liquidity stress  and none is expected.  (4)   If the report is on   an individual   basis the reporting frequency is:  (a)   Weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and  (b)   Monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency   liquidity reporting firm .  9.4   The   applicable due dates for submission referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table  below.   The due dates are the last day of the periods given in the table below following the  relevant reporting frequency period set out in   9. 3 , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG 3

Appendix 1.2  Page   27   of   36  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half  y early  Annual ly  Annual report  and accounts  80  business  days  Annual report  and accounts  of the   mixed -  activity  holding  company  7 months  Solvency  statement  3 months  FSA001   20  business  days  30  business  days   ( 1);  45  business  days   (2)  FSA002   20  business  days  30  business  days   ( 1);  45  business  days   (2)  FSA005   20  business  days  30  business  days   ( 1);  45  business  days   (2)  FSA006   20  business  days  FSA016   30  business  days  FSA018   45  business  days  FSA019   2 months

Appendix 1.2  Page   28   of   36  RAG 3  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half  y early  Annual ly  FSA045   20  business  days  30  business  days   ( 1);  45  business  days   (2)  FSA047   22.00 hours  (London time) on  the   business day  immediately  following the last  day of the reporting  period for the item  in question  22.00 hours  (London time) on  the   business day  immediately  following the last  day of the reporting  period for the item  in question  15  business  days  15  business  days   or  one   month  (3)  FSA048   22.00 hours  (London time) on  the   business day  immediately  following the last  day of the reporting  period for the item  in question  22.00 hours  (London time) on  the   business day  immediately  following the last  day of the reportin g  period for the item  in question  15  business  days  15  business  days   or  one   month  (3)  FSA050   15  business  days  FSA051   15  business  days  FSA052   22.00 hours  (London time) on  the   business day  immediately  following the last  day of the reporting  period for the item  in question  15  business  days  FSA053   15  business  days

Appendix 1.2  Page   29   of   36  (1)   For unconsolidated and   individually - consolidated reports.  (2)   For consolidation group reports.  (3)   It is one   Month   if the report relates to a   non - UK DLG by modification.  10   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 4  10.1   This Chapter applies only to   UK designated investment firms.  10.2   The   applicable   data items   referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table below:  RAG   4  Description of   data item   Applicable data items ( 1 )  Volumes and type of business (1)   FSA038  UCITS (2)   FSA042  (1)   Only applicable to   firms   that have a   managing investments   permission .  (2)   Only applicable to   firms   that have   permission   for   establishing, operating or winding up a  regulated collective investment scheme .  10.3   The applicable reporting frequencies for submission of   data items   referred to in 10.2 are set out   in the table below.   Reporting frequencies   are   calculated from   a   firm's   accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   4  Data item   Reporting frequency  FSA038   Half yearly  FSA042   Quarterly  10.4   The   applicable due dates for submission referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table  below.   The due dates are the last day of the periods given in the table below following the  relevant reporting frequency period set out in   10. 3 , unless indicated   otherwise.  RAG   4  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half yearly   Annual ly  FSA 038   30   business  days  FSA042   20   business  days

Appendix 1.2  Page   30   of   36  11   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 5  11.1   This Chapter does not apply to a   lead regulated firm .  11.2   The applicable   data items , reporting frequencies and submission deadlines referred to in   the  table in   6.1   are set out in the table below.   Reporting frequencies are calculated from a   firm's  accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise. The due dates are the last day of t he  periods given in the table below following the relevant reporting frequency period.  RAG 5  Description of   data item   Data item   (1)   Frequency   Submission deadline  Balance Sheet   Sections A.1 and A.2 MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Income Statement   Sections B.0 and B.1 MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Capital Adequacy   Section C MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Lending   -   Business flow  and rates  Section D MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Residential Lending to  individuals   -   New  business profile  Section E MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Lending   -   Arrears analysis   Section F MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Mortgage administration   -  Business profile  Section G MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Mortgage Administration   -  Arrears analysis  Section H MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Analysis of loans to  customers  Section A3 MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Provisions analysis   Section B2 MLAR   Quarterly   20   business days  Fees and levies   Section J MLAR   Annually   30   business days  Sale and   rent back   Section K MLAR   Annually   30   business days  (1)   When submitting the completed   data item   required, a   firm   must use the format of the  data item   set out in Chapter18.

Appendix 1.2  Page   31   of   36  12   FINANCIAL CONGLOMERATES  12.1   This   Chapter applies only to   a   firm   that   is a member of a   financial conglomerate   and either:  (1)   it is at the head of a   UK - regulated EEA financial conglomerate ; or  (2)   its   Part 4A permission   contains a   requirement   which either:  (a)   applies 12.3 to the   firm ; or  (b)   applies 12.3 to the   firm   unless the   mixed financial holding company   of the  financial conglomerate   to which the   firm   belongs submits the report required under this rule (as if the rule applied to it).  12.2   Firms   must submit to the   PRA   the duly completed   data items   specified in 12.3 in accordance with 12.3.  12.3   The table below sets out the following:  (1)   the   applicable   data items ;  (2)   the   applicable   reporting   frequencies   for   submission   of   data   items   and   periods (calculated from a   firm's   accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise); and  (3)   the applicable due dates for submission.   The due dates are the last day of the periods given in the table below following the relevant reporting frequency period, unless indicated otherwise.  Financial conglomerates  Content of Report   Data  item   (1)  Frequency   Due Date  Calculation of supplementary capital adequacy requirements in accordance with one of the three technical calculation methods  (2)   (5) Annually  (5)  Identification of significant   risk concentration   levels   (3)   Annually   4 months after year end  Identification of significant   intra - group transactions   (4)   Annually   4 months after year end  Report on compliance with   GENPRU 3.1.35 R   where it applies   (6)   (5)   (5)  (1)   When giving the report required, a   firm   must use the form indicated, if any.  (2)   Adequate information must be provided, specifying the calculation method used and each  financial conglomerate   for which the   PRA   is the   co - ordinator   must discuss with the   PRA   the form which this reporting will take and the extent to which verification by an auditor will be required.  For the purposes of the above, where relevant to the agreed reporting arrangements, rules 9.40(1), 9.40(1A), 9.40(3) and 9.40(4) of   IPRU(INS)   apply as they would if the   financial

Appendix 1.2  Page   32   of   36  conglomerate   were an   ‘ insurance   group ’   (as that term is used in   IPRU(INS) ) .  (3)   Rather than specifying a standard format for each   financial conglomerate   to use, each  financial conglomerate   for which the   PRA   is the   co - ordinator   must discuss with the   PRA   the  form of the information to be   reported. This should mean that usual information management  systems of the   financial conglomerate   can be used to the extent possible to generate and  ana lyse the information required.  (4)   For the purposes of this reporting requirement, an   intra - group t ransaction   will be presumed to  be significant if its amount exceeds 5% of the total amount of capital adequacy requirements  at the level of the   financial conglomerate .  Rather than specifying a standard format for each   financial conglomerate   to use, each  fi nancial conglomerate   for which the PRA is the   co - ordinator   must discuss with the PRA the  form of the information to be reported.  (5)   The frequency and due date will be as follows:  (a)   banking and investment services conglomerate : frequency is   annually   with due date  45   business days   after period end;  (b)   insurance conglomerate : frequency is   annually   with due date four months after period  end for the capital adequacy return and three months after period end for the report  on compliance with   GENPRU 3.1.3 5 R   where it applies.  (6)   Adequate information must be added as a separate item to the relevant form for sectoral  reporting.  13   PRUDENT VALUATION REPORTING  13.1   This Chapter applies only to   UK bank s and   UK designated investment firm s .  13.2   F irm s   must submit to the   PRA   quarterly (on a calendar year basis and not from a   firm's  accounting reference date ), within six weeks of each quarter end, a Prudent Valuation Return  in respect of its fair - value assessments.  13.3   Where a   firm   is a member of a   consolidation group , the   firm   must comply with 13.2:  (1)   on an individual consolidation basis if the   firm   has an   individual consolidation  permission , or on an unconsolidated basis if the   firm   does not have an   individual  consolidation permission ; and  (2)   separately, on the basis of the   consolidated situation   of the   consolidation group .  13.4   Firms   must   submit   the   Prudent   Valuation   Return   via   electronic   mail   to  prudentvaluationreturns@bankofengland.co.uk or via post or hand delivery to Regulatory  Data   Group,   Statistics   and   Regulatory   Data   Division   (HO5   A - B),   Bank   of   England,  Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8AH; or via fax to the Regulatory   Data Group of the Bank  of England (020 7601 3334).  14   TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS   –   WAIVERS  14.1   Subject to 14.4 this Chapter applies where, immediately before 1 January 2016, a   waiver  given in relation to a rule   in the supervision manual in the   PRA Handbook   listed in column A of the table in 14.3 has effect.

Appendix 1.2  Page   33   of   36  14.2   Each   waiver   given in relation to a rule in the supervision manual in the   PRA Handbook   listed in column A of the table in 14.3 is to be treated as a   waiver   given by the   PRA   to the   firm   under the rule in this Part   listed in the same row in column B of the table.  14.3  Column A  SUP 16.12   rule   as in force until  immediately before   1 January 2016  Column   B  Regulatory Reporting   rule as in force from  1 January 2016  SUP 16.12.4   6.1  SUP 16.12.5   7.1  SUP 16.12.6   7.2  SUP 16.12.7   7.3  SUP 16.12.8(1)   8.1  SUP 16.12.8(2)   8.2  SUP 16.12.8(3)   8.3  SUP 16.12.11B   9.2  SUP 16.12.12A   9.3  SUP 16.12.13A   9.4  SUP 16.12.15B   10.2  SUP 16.12.16A   10.3  SUP 16.12.17A   10.4  SUP 16.12.18   11.1  SUP 16.12.18A   11.2  14.4   This Chapter does not apply in relation to a   waiver   that is an   intra-group liquidity modification  or a   whole-firm liquidity modification .  15   TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS   –   REQUIREMENTS FOR MEMBERS OF FINANCIAL CONGLOMERATES  15.1   This   Chapter applies only to a   firm   that   is a member of a   financial conglomerate .  15.2   Where, immediately before 1 January 2016,   the   firm ’s   Part 4A   permission   contained a  requirement   which applied   SUP 16.12.33R   in   the supervision manual in the   PRA Handbook   to  the   firm , that requirement is to be treated as   applying   1 2 .3 to   the   firm .  15.3   Where, immediately before   1 January 2016 ,   the   firm ’s   Part 4A   permission   contained a  requirement   which applied   SUP 16.12.33R   in the supervision manual in the   PRA Handbook   to  the   firm   unless the   mixed financial holding company   of the   financial conglomerate   to which the  firm   belongs submits the report required under that   rule   (as if the   rule   applied to it), that  requirement is to be treated as   applying   1 2 .3 to the   firm   unless the   mixed   financial holding  company   of the   financial conglomerate   to which the   firm   belongs submits the report required  under that   rule   (as if the   rule   applied to it) .  16   DATA ITEMS  16.1   FSA001 can be found   here .  16.2   FSA002 can be found   here.  16.3   FSA005 can be found   here.  16.4   FSA006 can be found   here.

Appendix 1.2  Page   34   of   36  16.5   FSA011 can be found   here.  16.6   FSA014 can be found   here.  16.7   FSA015 can be found   here.  16.8   FSA016 can be found   here.  16.9   FSA017 can be found   here.  16.10   FSA018 can be found   here.  16.11   FSA019 can be found   here.  16.12   FSA038 can be found   here.  16.13   FSA042 can be found   here.  16.14   FSA045 can be found   here.  16.15   FSA047 can be found   here.  16.16   FSA048 can be found   here.  16.17   FSA050 can be found   here.  16.18   FSA051 can be found   here.  16.19   FSA052 can be found   here.  16.20   FSA053 can be found   here.  16.21   MLAR can be found   here.  16.22   CQ can be found   here.  16.23   CY can be found   here.  16.24   Prudent Valuation Return can be found   here.

Appendix 1.2  Page   35   of   36  Part  REGULATORY REPORTING  Externally defined glossary terms  Term   Definition source  authorised person   FSMA s417  collective investment scheme   FSMA s235  consolidated situation   Article 4(1)(47) CRR  EEA State   FSMA s425  FCA   FSMA s417  friendly society   FSMA s417  group   FSMA s421  IRB Approach   Article 143(1) CRR  mixed - activity holding company   Article 4(1)(22) CRR  mixed financial holding company   Article 4(1)(21) CRR  month   Interpretation Act 1978 Schedule 1  overseas regulator   FSMA 195(3)  participation(s)   Article 4(1)(35) CRR  partnership   FSMA s417  person   Interpretation Act 1978 Schedule 1  PRA - authorised person   FSMA s2B(5)  regulated activity   FSMA s22  United Kingdom   Interpretation Act 1978 Schedule 1

Appendix 1.2  Page   36   of   36  Annex 1  Liquidity definitions  defined liquidity group  DLG by default  DLG by modification (firm level)  firm-specific liquidity stress  group liquidity low frequency reporting conditions  group liquidity reporting firm  group liquidity standard frequency reporting conditions  low frequency liquidity reporting firm  market liquidity stress  material currencies  non-UK DLG by modification  non-UK DLG by modification (DLG level)  non-UK DLG by modification (firm level)  overall liquidity adequacy rule  standard frequency liquidity reporting firm  UK DLG by modification  UK lead regulated firm

PRA 2015/75  Page   1   of   7  Appendix 1.3  PRA RULEBOOK: REGULATORY REPORTING AMENDMENT INSTRUMENT 2015  Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the   following  powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”):  (1)   section 137G (The PRA’s general rules); and  (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers).  B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule-making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Regulatory Reporting Amendment Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in the Annex to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   The Annex to this instrument comes into force on the date specified by a subsequent PRA Board instrument.  Citation  This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: Regulatory Reporting Amendment Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/75  Page   2   of   7  Annex  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  Part  REGULATORY REPORTING  …  7   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 1  7.1   The   applicable   data items   referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out according to   firm   type in  the table below:  RAG   1   Prudential category of   firm , applicable   data items   and reporting format (1)  UK bank   Building  society  Non - EEA  bank  EEA bank  that has  permission   to accept deposits and that has its registered office (or, if it has no registered office, its head office) outside the  EU  Credit union   Dormant  account fund  operator  (12)  Description  of   data item  …  Liquidity Buffer Qualifying Securities  FSA050 ((14), (17) and (18))  FSA050 ((14), (17) and (18))  Funding Concentration  FSA051 ((14), (17) and (18))  FSA051 ((14), (17) and (18))  Pricing data   FSA052 ((14), (18) and (19))  FSA052 ((14), (18) and (19))  Retail and corporate funding  FSA053 ( (14), (17) and (18))  FSA053 ((14), (17) and (18))

PRA 2015/75  Page   3   of   7  …  (14)   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the following bases that are applicable.  (a)   It must complete it on an individual basis (including on the basis of the   firm's   UK  branch ) unless it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification . Therefore even if it has an   individual consolidation permission   it must complete the item on an unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification , it must complete the item on the basis of that group. [deleted]  …  (17)   (16) applies, except that sub paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) do not apply, meaning that  material currencies   must not be recorded separately. [deleted]  …  7.2   The   applicable reporting frequencies for submission of   data items   and periods referred to in  7.1   are set out in the table below according to   firm   type. Reporting frequencies are calculated  from a   firm's   accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   1  Data  item  Unconsolidated   UK  banks   and   building  societies  Individual  consolidated   UK  banks   and   building  societies  Report on a   UK consolidation  group   or, as applicable,  defined liquidity   group   basis  by   UK banks   and   building  societies  Other  members of  RAG   1  …  FSA050   Monthly ((2)   Monthly ((2))   Monthly ((2))  FSA051   Monthly ((2))   Monthly ((2))   Monthly (2)  FSA052   Weekly or monthly ((2) and (7))  Weekly or monthly ((2) and (8))   Weekly or monthly ((2) and (7))  FSA053   Quarterly (2)   Quarterly (2)   Quarterly (2)  …  (7)   If the report is on an individual basis (including by reference to the   firm's   UK  branch ) the reporting frequency is as follows:  (a)   weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency liquidity reporting firm ; and

PRA 2015/75  Page   4   of   7  (b)   monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm .   [deleted]  ( 8 )   If the report is by reference to the   firm's   UK   DLG by modification   the reporting  frequency is:  (a)   weekly if the   group   liquidity standard frequency reporting conditions   are met;  (b)   monthly if the   group liquidity low frequency reporting conditions   are met.  [deleted]  7.3   The   applicable due dates for submission referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table  below. The due dates are the last day of the periods given in the table below following the  relevant reporting frequency period set out in   7.2 , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   1  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half yearly   Annual  …  FSA050   15   business  days  FSA051   15   business  days  FSA052   22.00 hours (London time) on the second  business day  immediately following the last day of the reporting period for the item in question  15   business  days  FSA053   15   business  days  …  9   REGULATED ACTIVITY GROUP 3  …  9.2   The   applicable   data items   referred to in the table in   6.1   for a   UK designated investment firm  are set out in the table below:  RAG   3

PRA 2015/75  Page   5   of   7  Description of   data item   Applicable   data items   (1)  …  Liquidity Buffer Qualifying Securities   FSA050 ((10), ( 1 2 )   and (1 3 ))  Funding Concentration   FSA051 ((10), ( 1 2 )   and   ( 1 3 )  Pricing data   FSA052 ((10), ( 1 3 ) and ( 1 4 ))  Retail and corporate funding   FSA053 ((10), ( 1 2 )   and   ( 1 3 ))  …  (10)   A   firm   must complete this item separately on each of the following bases that are applicable.  (a)   It must complete it on an individual basis unless it is a   group liquidity  reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification . Therefore even if it has an  individual consolidation permission   it must complete the item on an unconsolidated basis by reference to the   firm   alone.  (b)   If it is a   group liquidity reporting firm   in a   UK DLG by modification , it must complete the item on the basis of that group.[deleted]  …  (12)   (11) applies, except that sub paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) do not apply, meaning that   material currencies   must not be recorded separately. [deleted]  …  (14)   This   data item   must be reported only in the currencies named in FSA052, so  that liabilities in GBP are reported in GBP in rows 1 to 4, those in USD are reported in USD in rows 5 to 8, and those in Euro are reported in Euro in rows 9 to 12. Liabilities in other currencies are not to be reported. [deleted]  …  9.3   The applicable reporting frequencies for submission of   data items   and periods referred to in 9.2 are set out in the table below.   Reporting frequencies are calculated from a   firm's  accounting reference date , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG   3  Data item   Reporting frequency  …  FSA050   Monthly (1)  FSA051   Monthly (1)

PRA 2015/75  Page   6   of   7  RAG   3  Data item   Reporting frequency  FSA502   Weekly or monthly ((1) and (4))  FSA053   Quarterly (1)  …  (4)   If the report is on an individual basis the reporting frequency is:  (a)   Weekly if the   firm   is a   standard frequency   liquidity reporting firm ; and  (b)   Monthly if the   firm   is a   low frequency liquidity reporting firm . [deleted]  9.4   The   applicable due dates for submission referred to in the table in   6.1   are set out in the table  below.   The due dates are the last day of the p eriods given in the table below following the  relevant reporting frequency period set out in   9.3 , unless indicated otherwise.  RAG 3  Data item   Daily   Weekly   Monthly   Quarterly   Half  yearly  Annual  …  FSA050   15  business  days  FSA051   15  business  days  FSA052   22.00 hours (London time) on the   business day  immediately following the last day of the reporting period for the item in question  15  business  days  FSA053   15  business  days  …

PRA 2015/75  Page   7   of   7  16   DATA ITEMS  …  16.17   FSA050 can be found here. [deleted]  16.18   FSA051 can be found here. [deleted]  16.19   FSA052 can be found here. [deleted]  16.20   FSA053 can be found here. [deleted]  …

PRA 2015/64  Page 1 of 3  Appendix 1.4  PRA RULEBOOK: CRR FIRMS: REVERSE STRESS TESTING (AMENDMENT TO ICAA) INSTRUMENT 2015  Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in   the exercise of the following  powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”):  (1) section 137G (T he PRA’s general rules);  (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers).  B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule- making instruments) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: CRR Firms: Reverse Stress Testing (Amendment to ICAA) Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in the Annex to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on 3 August 2015.  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: CRR Firms: Reverse Stress Testing (Amendment to ICAA) Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015.

PRA 2015/64  Page 2 of 3  Annex  Amendments to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part  In this Annex new text is underlined.  Part  INTERNAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY ASSESSMENT  Chapter content  …  15   REVERSE STRESS TESTING  …  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  1.1   …  1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  …  third country sub-group  means a group of   undertakings   identified in Article 22 of the   CRR   which are required to be supervised on a consolidated basis under Article 22 of the  CRR .  …  15 REVERSE STRESS TESTING  Application  15.1   This Chapter applies to a   CRR firm .  Reverse stress testing  15.2   As part of its business planning and risk management obligations, including under the Risk Control Part of the   PRA   Rulebook, a   firm   must reverse stress test its business plan; that is, it must carry out stress tests and scenario analyses that test its business plan to failure. To that end, the   firm   must:

PRA 2015/64  Page 3 of 3  (1)   identify a range of adverse circumstances which would cause its business plan to become unviable and assess the likelihood that such events could crystallise; and  (2)   where those tests reveal a risk of business failure that is unacceptably high when considered against the   firm's   risk appetite or tolerance, adopt effective arrangements, processes, systems or other measures to prevent or mitigate that risk.  15.3   Where the   firm   is a member of:  (1)   a   UK   consolidation group ; or  (2)   a   third country sub-group ;  it must conduct the reverse stress test on an individual basis as well as on a consolidated basis in relation to the   UK   consolidation group   or the   third country sub- group , as the case may be.  15.4   The design and results of a   firm's   reverse stress test must be documented and reviewed and approved at least annually by the   firm's   senior management   or  governing body . A   firm   must update its reverse stress test more frequently if it is appropriate to do so in the light of substantial changes in the market or in macroeconomic conditions.  …  Part  INTERNAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY ASSESSMENT  Externally defined glossary terms  Term   Definition source  …   …  investment   s22(4) FSMA

PRA 2015/65  Appendix 1.5  PRA RULEBOOK: CHANGE IN CONTROL INSTRUMENT 2015  Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”):  (1)   section 137G (the PRA’s general rules);  (2) section 137T (general supplementary powers);  (3) section 179 (Requirements for section 178 notices); and  (4) section 191E (Requirements for notices under section 191D).  B.   The rule-making powers (section 137G and section 137T of the Act) referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule-making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Change in Control Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules and gives the directions in Annex A to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on 3 August 2015.  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: Change in Control Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/65  Annex A  In this Annex, the text is all new and is not underlined.  Part  CHANGE IN CONTROL  Chapter content  1.   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  2.   OBLIGATIONS ON CONTROLLERS AND PROPOSED CONTROLLERS  3.   OBLIGATIONS ON FIRMS  4.   ONGOING NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS  5.   ANNUAL CONTROLLERS REPORT  6.   FORMS  Links

PRA 2015/65  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  1.1   (1)   Unless otherwise stated, this Part applies to every   firm   except:  (a)   an   incoming firm ;  (b)   a   non-directive friendly society .  (2)   Chapter 5 (Annual Controllers Report) does not apply to a   credit union .  (3)   The   PRA   directs that Chapter 2 (Obligations on Controllers) applies to   persons  required to give to the   PRA   a   section 178 notice   or a notice under section 191D of  FSMA .  1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  acquiring control  has the meaning given in section 181 of   FSMA , read in conjunction with the  Exemption Order .  Annual Controllers Report  means the relevant form referred to in Chapter 6.6  ceasing to have control  has the meaning given in section 183(3) of   FSMA , read in conjunction with the  Exemption Order .  change in control  means any situation amounting to   acquiring control ,   ceasing to have control ,  increasing control , or   reducing control .  controller  has the meaning given in section 422 of FSMA, read in conjunction with the  Exemption Order .  Controller’s Form  means the relevant form referred to in Chapter 6.1 to 6.5.  Exemption Order  means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Controllers) (Exemption) Order 2009 (SI 2009/774).  increasing control  has the meaning given in section 182 of FSMA, read in conjunction with the  Exemption Order .  investment manager

PRA 2015/65  has the meaning given in the   FCA Handbook   from time to time   other than for the purposes of the part of the   FCA Handbook   in Specialist sourcebooks that has the title Listing Rules.  reducing control  has the meaning given in section 183(1) and (2) of   FSMA , read in conjunction with the  Exemption Order .  section 178 notice  has the meaning given in section 178(3) of   FSMA .  UK domestic firm  means a   firm   that has its registered office (or, if it has no registered office, its head office) in the United Kingdom.  2   OBLIGATIONS ON CONTROLLERS AND PROPOSED CONTROLLERS  2.1   The   PRA   directs that a   person   submitting a   section 178 notice   in accordance with section 178(1) of   FSMA   must do so using the relevant   Controller’s   Form .  2.2   (1)   The   PRA   directs that a   person   who has submitted a   section 178 notice   must notify the  PRA   immediately if the   person   becomes aware, or has information which reasonably suggests, that the   person   has or may have provided the   PRA   with information which was or may have been false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate, or has or may have changed in a material particular.  (2)   The notification must include:  (a)   details of the information which is or may be false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate, or has or may have changed;  (b)   an explanation of why such information was or may have been provided; and  (c)   the correct information.  (3)   If the information in (2)(c) is not immediately available for submission with the   section 178 notice , the   PRA   directs that the information must instead be submitted as soon as possible.  (4)   The requirement in (1) ceases if the   change in   control   occurs or will not take place.  2.3   The   PRA   directs that a notice under section 191D of   FSMA   must provide details of the extent of control (if any) that the   controller   will have following the   change in   control .  2.4   Where a   controller   or proposed   controller   that is an   investment manager   is   complying with the directions in 2.1 and 2.3 in connection with the acquiring or disposal of listed shares in the course its fund management activity, the   PRA   directs that it may use the   Controller’s form   at 6.5.

PRA 2015/65  3   OBLIGATIONS ON FIRMS  3.1   A   UK domestic firm , other than a   non-directive firm   or a   building society , must notify the   PRA  of:  (1)   a   person   acquiring   control   over the   firm ;  (2)   an existing   controller   increasing control   over the   firm ;  (3)   an existing   controller   reducing control   over the   firm ; or  (4)   an existing   controller ceasing to have control   over the   firm .  3.2   A   building society   or a   non-directive firm   must notify the   PRA   of:  (1)   a   person   acquiring control   over the   firm ; or  (2)   an existing   controller   ceasing to have control   over the   firm  unless that   person’s   acquiring   or   ceasing to have control   is exempt from the notification requirement in sections 178 or 191D of   FSMA   by virtue of the   Exemption Order .  3.3   An   overseas firm   other than an   incoming firm   must notify the   PRA   of:  (1)   a   person   acquiring   control   over the   firm ;  (2)   an existing   controller   increasing control   over the   firm ;  (3)   an existing   controller   reducing control   over the   firm ; or  (4)   an existing   controller   ceasing to have   control   over the   firm .  3.4   The notifications in 3.1 to 3.3 must:  (1)   be made:  (a)   as soon as the   firm   becomes aware that a   person , whether alone or acting in concert, has decided to   acquire   control , to   increase control   or to   reduce control ; or  (b)   if the   change in control   takes place without the knowledge of the   firm , within 14 days of the   firm   becoming aware of the   change in   control   concerned;  (2)   in relation to   acquiring control   or   increasing   control,   contain as much of the following information as the   firm   is able to provide, having made reasonable enquiries from  persons   and other sources as appropriate:  (a)   the name of the   firm;  (b)   the name of the   controller   or proposed   controller   and, if it is a body corporate and is not an authorised person, the names of its directors and its   controllers ;  (c)   a description of the proposed event including the shareholding and voting power of the   person   concerned, both before and after the   change in   control ; and  (d)   any other information of which the   PRA   would reasonably expect notice;

PRA 2015/65  (3)   in relation to a   reducing control , contain the following:  (a)   the name of the   controller ; and  (b)   details of the extent of control (if any) which the   controller   will have following the reduction in   control .  3.6   (1)   A   UK domestic firm   must notify the   PRA   immediately if, in the period between a  section 178 notice   being submitted and the occurrence of the   change in   control , the  firm   becomes aware, or has information which reasonably suggests, that the   person  submitting the notice has or may have provided the   PRA   with information which was or may have been false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate, or has or may have changed in a material particular.  (2)   The notification must include:  (a)   details of the information which is or may be false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate, or has or may have changed;  (b)   an explanation why such information was or may have been provided; and  (c)   the correct information.  (3)   If the information in (2)(c) is not immediately available for submission with the notification, the information must instead be submitted as soon as possible.  3.7   During the period referred to in 3.6, a   UK domestic firm   must take reasonable steps to keep itself informed about the circumstances of the   controller   or the proposed   controller   to which the notification related.  3.8   A   firm   must notify the   PRA :  (1)   when a   change in   contr ol which was previously notified under 3.1 to 3.3 has taken place; or  (2)   if the   firm   has grounds for reasonably believing that the event will not now take place.  3.9   The notification under 3.8 must be given within 14 days of the   change in   control   or of having the grounds (as applicable).  4   ONGOING NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS  4.1   A   firm   must notify   PRA   immediately it becomes aware of any of the following matters in respect of one or more of its   controllers :  (1)   if a   controller , or any entity subject to his   control , is or has been the subject of any legal action or investigation which might put into question the integrity of the  controller ;  (2)   if there is a significant deterioration in the financial position of a   controller ;  (3)   if a corporate   controller   undergoes a substantial change or series of changes in its  governing body ;

PRA 2015/65  (4)   if a   controller , who is authorised in another   EEA State   as a MiFID investment firm,  CRD credit institution   or UCITS management company or under the   Insurance Directives   or the   Insurance Mediation Directive , ceases to be so authorised (registered in the case of an   IMD insurance intermediary ).  4.2   A   firm   must take reasonable steps to keep itself informed about   controllers , including if applicable:  (1)   monitoring its register of shareholders (or equivalent);  (2)   monitoring notifications to the   firm   in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006;  (3)   monitoring public announcements made under the relevant disclosure provisions of the Takeover Code or other rules made by the Takeover Panel;  (4)   monitoring the entitlement of delegates, or persons with voting rights in respect of group insurance contracts, to exercise or control voting power at general meetings.  5   ANNUAL CONTROLLERS REPORT  5.1   A   firm   must submit (or procure that another   firm   in its   group   submits) to the PRA, by electronic means ,   a written   Annual Controllers Report   which contains the information specified in the form referred to at 6.6, within four months of the   firm ’ s accounting reference date .  Exemptions  5.2   A   friendly society   or a   building society   is only required to submit a report under 5.1 if it is aware that it has a   controller .  5.3   In relation to a   building society,   a   controller   does not include a   person   who is exempt from the obligation to notify a   change in control   under the   Exemption Order .  5.4   An   insurer   need not submit a report under 5.1 to the extent that the information has already been provided to the   PRA   under   IPRU(INS)   9.30 R (Additional information on controllers).  6   FORMS  6.1   The   Controllers Form   to be used by a limited company or limited liability partnership can be found   here .  6.2   The   Controllers Form   to be used by a partnership is can be found   here .  6.3   The   Controllers Form   to be used by an individual (other than in that individual’s capacity as a  trustee, settler or beneficiary of a trust) can be found   here .  6.4   The   Controllers Form   to be used by a   person   in their capacity as a trustee, settler or beneficiary of a trust can be found   here .  6.5   The   Controllers Form   to be used by a   person   in their capacity as an   investment manager   can be found   here .  6.6   The   Annual Controllers Report   can be found   here .

PRA 2015/65

PRA 2015/66 Appendix 1.6 PRA RULEBOOK: CLOSE LINKS INSTRUMENT 2015 Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”): (1) section 137G (the PRA’s general rules); and (2) section 137T (general supplementary powers). B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule- making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Close Links Instrument 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in Annex A to this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on 3 August 2015.  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the PRA Rulebook: Close Links Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/66  Annex A  In this Annex, the text is all new and is not underlined.  Part CLOSE LINKS Chapter content 1.   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS 2.   REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY CHANGES IN CLOSE LINKS 3.   ELECTION TO NOTIFY CHANGES IN CLOSE LINKS ON A MONTHLY BASIS 4.   ANNUAL CLOSE LINKS REPORT 5.   FORMS Links

PRA 2015/66 1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  1.1   Unless otherwise stated, this Part applies to every   firm   except an   incoming   firm . 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  close links  has the meaning given in   threshold condition   5F(3) (Effective Supervision).  Close Links Annual Report  means the form referred to at 5.3 . Close Links Monthly Report  means the form referred to at 5.2 . Close Links Notification Form  means the form referred to at 5.1 .  2   REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY CHANGES IN CLOSE LINKS  2.1   A   firm   must notify (or procure that another   firm   in its   group   notifies) the   PRA   that it has begun to have or ceased to have   close links   with any   person . 2.2   Where a   firm   has elected to report changes in   close links   on a monthly basis under 3.1, it must: (1)   within fifteen   business days   of the end of each month, report (or procure that another  firm   in its   group   reports) electronically for that month, by completing the   Close Links Monthly Report   and submitting it through the relevant platform provided by the   PRA ; (2)   on a quarterly basis, submit (or procure that another   firm   in its   group   submits) a   group  organisation chart, unless there have been no changes since the submission of the previous organisation chart to the   PRA , in which case the   group   organisation chart is not required. 2.3   The   Close Links Monthly Report   must include the information specified in the form. 2.4   Where a   firm   has not elected to report changes in   close links   on a monthly basis under 3.1, it must make (or procure that another   firm   in its   group   makes) a notification by completing the  Close Links Notification Form   as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than one month after it becomes aware that it has begun to have or ceased to have   close links   with any person. 2.5   The notification submitted under 2.4 must be made by completing the   Close Links Notification Form   and must include all the relevant information specified therein.

PRA 2015/66 3   ELECTION TO NOTIFY CHANGES IN CLOSE LINKS ON A MONTHLY BASIS  3.1   A   firm   wishing to report changes in   close links   on a monthly basis must send a written notice of election to the   firm’s   usual supervisory contact at the   PRA . 3.2   A firm wishing to cease reporting changes in   close links   on a monthly basis must send a written notice of that intention to its usual supervisory contact at the   PRA   at least one month before changing its   close links   reporting practice.  4   ANNUAL CLOSE LINKS REPORT  4.1   A   firm   must submit (or procure that another   firm   in its   group   submits) annually by electronic means to the   PRA   the   Close Links Annual Report , within four months of the   firm’s accounting reference date . 4.2   An unincorporated   friendly society   is only required to submit a report under 4.1 if it is aware that it has   close links . 4.3   The   Close Links Annual Report   must include the information specified in the form.  5   FORMS  5.1   The   Close Links Notification Form   can be found here. 5.2   The   Close Links Monthly Report   can be found here. 5.3   The   Close Links Annual Report   can be found here.

PRA 2015/66 Part  CLOSE LINKS  Externally defined glossary terms  Term   Definition source  friendly society   s417 FSMA group   s421 FSMA person   Schedule 1 Interpretation Act 1978 threshold condition   s55B(1) FSMA

PRA 2015/67  Page 1 of 31  Appendix 1.7 HANDBOOK (RULEBOOK CONSEQUENTIALS NO. 3) INSTRUMENT 2015 Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”): (1) section 137G (The PRA’s general rules); (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers); B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule-making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  Amendments  D.   The modules of the PRA’s Handbook of rules and guidance listed in column (1) below are amended in accordance with the Annexes to this instrument listed in column (2). (1)   (2) Glossary   A Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS)   B Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls (SYSC) C General Provisions (GEN)   D Supervision (SUP)   E Supervision (SUP)   F General Prudential sourcebook (GENPRU)   G Interim Prudential sourcebook for Insurers (IPRU-INS) H Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS)   I Glossary   J  Deletion  E.   Each of the modules, sourcebooks and sections of the PRA’s Handbook listed in Annex K are deleted.

PRA 2015/67  Page 2 of 31  Commencement  F.   Annexes A, B, C, D, E and K to this instrument come into force on 3 August 2015. Annexes F, G, H, I and J to this instrument come into force on 1 January 2016.  Citation  G. This instrument may be cited as the Handbook (Rulebook Consequentials No. 3) Instrument 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/67  Page 3 of 31  Annex A Amendments to the Glossary  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  client money   (1)   …  (2)   …  (3)   (in   MIPRU ): [deleted] (a)   in relation to an   insurance intermediary   when acting as such,   money   which is   client money   in (2); [deleted] (b)   in relation to a   home finance intermediary   when acting as such,   money   of any currency which in the course of carrying on   home finance mediation activity , the   firm   holds on behalf of a  client , either in a bank account or in the form of cash. [deleted].  …  …  common platform firm   (A)   In the   PRA   Handbook (except   SYSC   4-9):  …  (AB)   In the   PRA   Handbook (in   SYSC   4-9), has the same meaning as in (A) except that it excludes a   CRR firms  (other than an   incoming firm ).  …  director   (1)   (except in   COLL ,   DTR ,   LR   and   PR ) (in relation to any of   the   following   (whether   constituted   in   the   United Kingdom   or under the law of a country or territory outside it)): (a)   … (b)   …

PRA 2015/67  Page 4 of 31 (c)   (in   SYSC ,   MIPRU 2   (Insurance mediation activity: responsibility, knowledge, ability and good repute)   and   SUP 10   (Approved persons)) a  partnership ; (d)   …  …  …  exposure   (1)   …  (2)   (in   accordance   with   Article   77   of   the   Banking Consolidation Directive   and for the purposes of the calculation of the   credit risk capital component   and the  counterparty risk capital component   (including   BIPRU 3   (Standardised   credit   risk),   BIPRU   4   (The   IRB approach),   BIPRU 5   (Credit risk mitigation),   BIPRU 9  (Securitisation) or for the purposes of the calculation of the credit risk capital requirement in   MIPRU 4.2  (Capital   resources   requirement))   an   asset   or   off- balance sheet item. [deleted]  (3)   (for   the   purposes   of   BIPRU   10   (Large   exposures requirements))   has   the   meaning   in   BIPRU   10.2  (Identification of exposures and recognition of credit risk mitigation). [deleted]  …  listed   (A)   In the   PRA   Handbook:  (1)   (except   in   SUP   11,   INSPRU   and   IPRU(INS) ) included in an official list.  (2)   (in   SUP   11,   INSPRU   and   IPRU(INS) ):  … …  non-directive firm   (in   SUP   11 (Controllers and close links) and   SUP   16 (Reporting requirements))   (in   accordance   with   the   Financial   Services   and Markets   Act   2000   (Controllers)   (Exemption)   Order   2009   (SI 2009/774)) a   UK domestic firm   other than:

PRA 2015/67  Page 5 of 31 …  risk weight   (in relation to an   exposure   for the purposes of   BIPRU ) a degree of risk expressed as a percentage assigned to that  exposure   in accordance with :  (a)   …  (b)   (for a   firm   to which   MIPRU 4   applies),   MIPRU 4.2A.10 R   to   MIPRU 4.2A.13 R   [deleted].  …  securitisation   (1)   …  (2)   (in   accordance   with   Article   4(36)   of   the   Banking Consolidation   Directive   (Definitions),   in   BIPRU   and MIPRU 4) a transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an   exposure   or pool of   exposures   is  tranched   having the following characteristics: [deleted] (a)   payments in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the performance of the   exposure  or pool of   exposures ; and [deleted] (b)   the subordination of   tranches   determines the distribution of   losses   during the ongoing life of the transaction or scheme [deleted].  …  sponsor   (in   BIPRU ), in accordance with Article 4(42) of the   Banking Consolidation   Directive   (Definitions)   and   in   relation   to   a  securitisation   within   the   meaning   of   paragraph   (2)   of   the definition   of   securitisation)   an   undertaking   other   than   an  originator   that establishes and manages an   asset backed commercial paper programme   or other   securitisation   scheme that purchases   exposures   from third party entities has the meaning in article 4(1)(14) of the   EU CRR .

PRA 2015/67  Page 6 of 31  Annex B Amendments to the Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  1.1   Application and purpose  … 1.1.2   G   (1)   CREDS   covers   only   the   requirements   associated   with   a   Part   4A permission   to   accept   deposits .   The   Conduct   of   Business   sourcebook ( COBS ) sets out additional requirements for   credit unions   that are   CTF providers   in relation to   cash deposit CTFs .[deleted] (2) Other   permissions   are covered elsewhere in the   Handbook . So, for example, a   credit union   seeking a   permission   to undertake a   regulated mortgage   activity   would   need   to   comply   with   the   requirements   in   the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook ( MCOB ), and a   credit union   seeking a   permission   to undertake   insurance mediation activity   in relation to   non-investment insurance contracts   would need to comply   with   the   requirements   in   the   Insurance:   Conduct   of   Business sourcebook ( ICOBS ). [deleted] (3) The provisions of the Prudential sourcebook for Mortgage and Home Finance   Firms,   and   Insurance   Intermediaries   ( MIPRU )   and   the   Interim Prudential sourcebook for Investment Businesses ( IPRU(INV) ) may also be relevant to a   credit union   whose   Part 4A permission   includes   insurance mediation activity   or   mortgage mediation activity   or which is a   CTF provider  with permission to carry on   designated investment business . [deleted] 1.1.2B   G   (1)   CREDS   covers   only   the   requirements   associated   with   a   Part   4A permission   to   accept   deposits .   The   Conduct   of   Business   sourcebook ( COBS ) sets out additional requirements for   credit unions   that are   CTF providers   in relation to   cash deposit CTFs . (2) Other   permissions   are covered elsewhere in the   Handbook . So, for example, a   credit union   seeking a   permission   to undertake a   regulated mortgage   activity   would   need   to   comply   with   the   requirements   in   the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook ( MCOB ), and a   credit union   seeking a   permission   to undertake   insurance mediation activity   in relation to   non-investment insurance contracts   would need to comply   with   the   requirements   in   the   Insurance:   Conduct   of   Business sourcebook ( ICOBS ). (3) The provisions of the Interim Prudential sourcebook for Investment Businesses ( IPRU(INV) ) may also be relevant to a   credit union   whose   Part 4A permission   includes   insurance mediation activity   or   mortgage mediation activity   or which is a   CTF provider   with permission to carry on   designated investment business .

PRA 2015/67  Page 7 of 31  Annex C Amendments to Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls (SYSC)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  1.1A   Application  … 1.1A.1A   G   Chapters 4 to 9 are not applicable to   CRR firms   (other than   incoming firms ).   CRR firms   are subject to the rules in the General Organisational Requirements Part of the   PRA   Rulebook. …  1 Annex 1   Detailed application of SYSC  …  Part 2   Application of the common platform requirements (SYSC 4 to 10)  … 2.1A   R   The   common platform organisational requirements   apply to every   firm  apart from a   CRR firm   (other than an   incoming firm ), an   insurer , a  managing agent   and   the Society   unless provided otherwise in a specific  rule . 2.1B   R   SYSC 10 applies to every   firm   apart from an   insurer , a   managing agent  and   the Society   unless provided otherwise in a specific   rule . [deleted] …  Part 3   Tables summarising the application of the common platform requirements to different types of firm  … 3.2C   R   For a   common platform firm   other than a   CRR firm   (other than an   incoming firm ), Provision SYSC 4 to Provision SYSC 9 apply in accordance with Column A in the table below. 3.2D   G   SYSC 4 to 9 are not applicable to a   CRR firms   (other than an   incoming firm ). A   CRR firm   (other than an   incoming firm ) s   are is subject to the rules in the General Organisational Requirements, Skills, Knowledge and Expertise, Compliance and Internal Audit, Risk Control, Outsourcing and Record Keeping Parts of the   PRA   Rulebook.

PRA 2015/67  Page 8 of 31 3.2E   R   For a   common platform firm , Provision SYSC 10 applies in accordance with Column A in the table below does not apply to   PRA-authorised persons   and the table below must be read accordingly. … 3.3A   G   For all other   firms   apart from   CRR firms (other than incoming firms), insurers ,   managing agents , the   Society   and   full-scope UK AIFMs   of  unauthorised AIFs , they apply in accordance with Column B in the table below. For these   firms , where a   rule   is shown modified in Column B as 'Guidance', it should be read as   guidance   (as if "should" appeared in that rule instead of "must") and should be applied in a proportionate manner, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of the firm's business. 3.4   R   For the purposes of Provision SYSC 4 to Provision SYSC 9 in the table below, the references to: (1)   “common platform firm” in Column A must be read as “a common platform firm apart from a CRR firm   CRR firm   (other than an  incoming firm )”; and (2)   “all other firms” in Column B must be read as “all other firms apart from CRR firms a   CRR firm   (other than an   incoming firm )”. (3)   rules or guidance that apply to the UK branch of a   non-EEA bank   in accordance with Column B must not be applied by the UK branch of a   non-EEA bank . (4)   SYSC 7.1.4A G is to be read as SYSC 7.1.4AA G. 3.5   R   For the purposes of Provision SYSC 4 to Provision SYSC 9 in the table below, Column B applies to   credit unions   only. …  7.1   Risk control  … 7.1.4A   G   For   a   common   platform   firm   included   within   the   scope   of   SYSC   20  (Reverse   stress   testing),   the   strategies,   policies   and   procedures   for identifying, taking up, managing, monitoring and mitigating the risks to which the   firm   is or might be exposed include conducting reverse stress testing in accordance with   SYSC 20 . A   common platform firm   which falls outside the scope of S YSC 20   should consider conducting reverse stress tests on its business plan as well. This would further   senior personnels  understanding of the   firm's   vulnerabilities and would help them design measures to prevent or mitigate the risk of business failure.[deleted] 7.1.4AA   G   For a   common platform firm   included within the scope of chapter 15 of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part of the   PRA   Rulebook, the

PRA 2015/67  Page 9 of 31 strategies, policies and procedures for identifying, taking up, managing, monitoring   and   mitigating   the   risks   to   which   the   firm   is   or   might   be exposed include conducting reverse stress testing in accordance with chapter 15 of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part of the   PRA  Rulebook.   A   common   platform   firm   which   falls   outside   the   scope   of chapter 15 of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part of the   PRA  Rulebook should consider conducting reverse stress tests on its business plan as well. This would further   senior personnel’s   understanding of the  firm's   vulnerabilities and would help them design measures to prevent or mitigate the risk of business failure. …  12.1   Application  … 12.1.13A   R   When applying   SYSC   12.1.13R, a   CRR firms   (other than an   incoming firm ) must read references to: (1)   … …  20.1   Application and purpose  Application 20.1.1   R   (1)   SYSC 20   applies to: (a)   a   firm   which is [deleted]: (i)   a   bank   [deleted]; or (ii)   a   building society   [deleted]; or (iii)   a   designated investment firm   which meets any of the criteria set out in (2) on an individual basis, or in (3) on a consolidated basis [deleted]; and (b)   an   insurer   unless it is: (i)   a   non-directive friendly society ; or (ii)   a   Swiss general insurer ; or (iii)   an   EEA-deposit insurer ; or (iv)   an   incoming EEA firm ; or (v)   an   incoming Treaty firm . (2)   Subject to (4),   SYSC 20   applies to a   designated investment firm   if [deleted]:

PRA 2015/67  Page 10 of 31 (a)   it has assets under management or administration of at least £10 billion (or the equivalent amount in foreign currency) [deleted]; or (b)   the total annual   fee   and   commission   income arising from its  regulated activities   is at least £250 million (or the equivalent amount in foreign currency) [deleted]; or (c)   it has assets or liabilities of at least £2 billion (or the equivalent amount in foreign currency) [deleted]. (3)   Subject to (4), where all of the   designated investment firms   within the same   consolidation group   or   non-EEA sub-group , taken together as if they were one   firm , meet any of the criteria in (2),   SYSC 20   applies to each of those   designated investment firms   as if it individually met the inclusion criteria in (2) [deleted]. (4)   Any   designated investment firm   which is included within the scope of  SYSC 20   in accordance with (2) or (3) in any given year will continue to be subject to   SYSC 20   for the following two years irrespective of whether or not it continues to meet the inclusion criteria   3   in any of those subsequent years [deleted]. … 20.1.4A   G   The reverse stress testing requirements are an integral component of a  firm's   business planning and risk management under   SYSC . For   BIPRU firms   as referred to in SYSC 20.1.1R (1)(a), this chapter amplifies SYSC 7.1.1 G to SYSC 7.1.8 G on risk control. For   insurers   as referred to in SYSC 20.1.1R (1)(b), this chapter amplifies SYSC 14.1.17 G to SYSC 14.1.25 G on business planning and risk management. …  21.1   Risk control: guidance on governance arrangements  Additional guidance on governance arrangements … 21.1.1A   G   References to “ firm ” in   SYSC 21   should be read as excluding   CRR firms  (other than   incoming firms ). …

PRA 2015/67  Page 11 of 31  Annex D Amendments to General Provisions (GEN)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  2.2   Interpreting the Handbook  …  Cross-references in the Handbook 2.2.13B   R   A reference in the   Handbook   to a provision in the   PRA   Rulebook is a reference to that provision as amended from time to time. …

PRA 2015/67  Page 12 of 31  Annex E Amendments to the Supervision manual (SUP)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  10B.6   PRA governing functions  …  Insurance mediation  10B.6.19   G   A   firm   carrying on   insurance mediation activity , other than a   sole trader , must allocate to a   director   or   senior manager   the responsibility for the   firm's  insurance mediation activity   (MIPRU 2.2.1 R). MIPRU 2.2.2 R (1) provides that the   firm   may allocate this responsibility to one or more of the   persons  performing   a   governing   function   (other   than   the   non-executive   director function ).[deleted] 10B.6.20   G   Where a   person   performing a   governing function   is also responsible for the  firm's   insurance mediation activity , the words "(insurance mediation)" will be inserted after the relevant   PRA controlled function   (see MIPRU 2.2.5 G). [deleted] …

PRA 2015/67  Page 13 of 31  16.1   Application  … 16.1.3   R (1) Section(s)   (2) Categories of firm to which section applies (3) Applicable rules and guidance …   …   …  SUP   16.4 and   SUP  16.5 [FCA only] All categories of   firm   except:   Entire sections (-a)   a   credit union ; (a)   an   ICVC ; (b)   an   incoming EEA firm ; (c)   an   incoming Treaty firm ; (d)   a   non-directive friendly society ; (e)   [deleted] (f)   a   sole trader ; (g)   a   service company ; (h)   a   UCITS qualifier ; (i)   a   firm   with   permission   to carry on only   retail investment activities ; (j)   a   firm   with   permission   to carry on only   insurance mediation activity ,  home finance mediation activity , or both; (ja)   an   FCA-authorised person   with  permission   to carry on only   credit- related regulated activity ; (k)   a   firm   falling within a combination of (i),(j) and (ja). …   …   … …  16.3   General provisions on reporting  …

PRA 2015/67  Page 14 of 31 SUP 16.3.2A G   This chapter has been split into the following sections, covering: (1)   annual controllers reports (SUP 16.4) [deleted]; (2)   annual close links reports (SUP 16.5) [deleted]; … … 16.3.26   G   Examples of reports covering a   group   are: [deleted] (1)   The compliance reports required from   banks   under   SUP   16.6.4R; [deleted] (2)   annual controllers reports required under   SUP   16.4.5R; [deleted] (3)   annual close links reports required under   SUP   16.5.4R; [deleted] (4)   consolidated   financial   reports   required   from   banks   under   SUP  16.12.5R; [deleted] (5)   consolidated reporting statements required from   securities and futures firms   under   SUP   16.12.11R; [deleted] (6)   Reporting in relation to   defined liquidity groups   under   SUP   16.12. [deleted] 16.3.26A   G   Examples of reports covering a   group   are: (1)   The compliance reports required from   banks   under   SUP   16.6.4R; (2)   [deleted]; (3)   [deleted]; (4)   consolidated   financial   reports   required   from   banks   under   SUP  16.12.5R; (5)   consolidated reporting statements required from   securities and futures firms   under   SUP   16.12.11R; (6)   Reporting in relation to   defined liquidity groups   under   SUP   16.12. …

PRA 2015/67  Page 15 of 31  Sch 1   Record keeping requirements  … Sch 1.2   G … Handbook reference Subject of record Contents of record   When record must be made Retention period …  SUP 13.11  [FCA] [PRA]  UK firm  exercising  EEA right  (a) the services or activities it carries on from a   branch   in, or provide   cross border services  into, another   EEA State   under that   EEA right ; and the  requisite details   or relevant details relating to those services or activities (if applicable) Not specified   Three years from the earlier of the date on which:(a) it was superseded by a more up-to-date record; or  (a) the   UK firm   ceased to have a  branch   in, or carry   cross border services   into, any   EEA State   under an   EEA right  SUP 13.11.1  [FCA] [PRA] Exercise of passport rights by   UK firms  (1) Services or activities carried on from a   branch   in, or provided   6   cross-border into, another   EEA State   under an  EEA right  Not specified   Five years (for   firms  passporting under   MiFID ) or three years (for other   firms ) from earlier of:(1) record being superseded;  (2) The details relating to those services or activities (as set out in   SUP 13.6   and   SUP 13.7 ). (2)   firm  ceasing to have any  EEA branches   or cross- border services.  TP 1 Transitional provisions

PRA 2015/67  Page 16 of 31 … TP 1.2 (1)   (2)   Material to which the transitional provision applies  (3)   (4)   Transitional provision (5) Transitional provision: dates   in force  (6)   Handbook provision: coming   into force  …   …   …   …   …   … 10A [FCA only]  SUP   16.4  SUP   16.5  R   SUP   16.4   (Annual controllers   report) and   SUP   16.5 (Annual close links report) do not apply to   a   firm   with  permission   to carry on   only   insurance mediation   activity, mortgage mediation   activity , or both (1) in respect of   mortgage mediation activities,   31 October 2004   -   31 March 2005; (2) in respect of   insurance mediation activities ,   14 January 2005   -   31 March 2005, 1 April 2005 14C [FCA only]  SUP  16.10.4  R   A   firm   whose  accounting reference date   falls between   1   April 2005 and 30 June 2005   (inclusive) need   not   comply with SUP 16.10.4R until its   accounting reference date   in 1 April 2005- 30   June 2005 1 April 2005

PRA 2015/67  Page 17 of 31  Annex F Amendments to the Supervision manual (SUP)  Each of the following sections of the Supervision manual is deleted: SUP 16.12 (Integrated Regulatory Reporting) SUP 16.16 (Prudent valuation reporting) SUP 16 Annex 24 (Data items for SUP 16.12) SUP 16 Annex 25A (Guidance notes for data items in SUP 16 Annex 24 R) SUP 16 Annex 26 (Guidance on designated liquidity groups in SUP 16.12) SUP 16 Annex 31A (Prudent Valuation Return) SUP 16 Annex 31B (Guidance notes for data items in SUP 16 Annex 31A R) The Supervision manual is amended as follows. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  16.1   Application  … 16.1.2   G   The only categories of   firm   to which no section of this chapter applies are: [deleted] (1)   an   ICVC ; [deleted] (2)   an   incoming EEA firm   or   incoming Treaty firm , unless it is: [deleted] (a)   a   firm   of a type listed in   SUP 16.1.3 R   as a type of   firm   to which  SUP 16.6 ,   SUP 16.7A ,   SUP 16.9   ,   SUP 16.12 , or   SUP 16.14  applies; or[deleted] (b)   an   insurer   with   permission   to   effect   or   carry out life policies ; [deleted] (c)   a   firm   with   permission   to   establish, operate or wind up a personal pension scheme   or a   stakeholder pension scheme ; [deleted] (3)   a   UCITS qualifier . [deleted] 16.1.2A   G   The only categories of   firm   to which no section of this chapter applies are: (1)   an   ICVC ;

PRA 2015/67  Page 18 of 31 (2)   an   incoming EEA firm   or   incoming Treaty firm , unless it is: (a)   a   firm   of a type listed in   SUP 16.1.3 R   as a type of   firm   to which  SUP 16.6 ,   SUP 16.7A ,   SUP 16.9 , the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook or   SUP 16.14   applies; or (b)   an   insurer   with   permission   to   effect   or   carry out life policies ; (c)   a   firm   with   permission   to   establish, operate or wind up a personal pension scheme   or a   stakeholder pension scheme ; (3)   a   UCITS qualifier . 16.1.3   R   Application of different sections of SUP 16 (excluding SUP 16.13, SUP 16.15, SUP 16.16 and SUP 16.17) …   …   …  SUP   16.12 [FCA only] A   firm   undertaking the   regulated activities   as listed in SUP 16.12.4 R, unless exempted in SUP 16.12.1 G Sections as relevant to  regulated activities   as listed in SUP 16.12.4 R 6 16.1.3A   R   The reference to   SUP 16.12   in the table above in   SUP 16.1.3R   in respect of Sections   SUP 16.1 ,   SUP 16.2   and   SUP 16.3 ,   at (1)(b)(i)   must be read as “the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook”. … 16.3   General provisions on reporting  16.3.1   G   The effect of   SUP 16.1.1R   is that this section applies to every   firm   except: [deleted] (1)   an   ICVC ; [deleted] (2)   an   incoming EEA firm   or   incoming Treaty firm , unless it is: [deleted] (a)   a   firm   of a type listed in   SUP 16.1.3 R   as a   firm   to which   SUP 16.6   or   SUP 16.12   applies; [deleted] (b)   an   insurer   with   permission   to   effect   or   carry out life policies ; [deleted] (3)   a   UCITS qualifier . [deleted] 16.3.1A   G   The effect of   SUP 16.1.1R   is that this section applies to every   firm   except: (1)   an   ICVC ;

PRA 2015/67  Page 19 of 31 (2)   an   incoming EEA firm   or   incoming Treaty firm , unless it is: (a)   a   firm   of a type listed in   SUP 16.1.3 R   as a   firm   to which   SUP 16.6   or the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook applies; (b)   an   insurer   with   permission   to   effect   or   carry out life policies ; (3)   a   UCITS qualifier .  Structure of the chapter  … 16.3.2A   G   This chapter has been split into the following sections, covering: … (7)   integrated regulatory reporting ( SUP   16.12)[deleted]; …  Reports from groups  16.3.25   G   If this chapter requires the submission of a report or   data item   covering a  group , a single report or   data item   may be submitted, and so satisfy the requirements of all   firms   in the   group . Such a report or   data item   should contain the information required from all of them, meet all relevant due dates and indicate all the   firms   on whose behalf it is submitted; if necessary a separate covering sheet should list the   firms   on whose behalf a report or  data item   is submitted. Nevertheless, the requirement to provide a report or  data item , and the responsibility for the report or   data item , remains with each   firm   in the   group . However, reporting requirements that apply to a   firm , by reason of the   firm   being a member of a   financial conglomerate , are imposed   on   only   one   member   of   the   financial   conglomerate   (see,   for example, SUP 16.12.32 R). [deleted] 16.3.25A   G   If this chapter requires the submission of a report or   data item   covering a  group , a single report or   data item   may be submitted, and so satisfy the requirements of all   firms   in the   group . Such a report or   data item   should contain the information required from all of them, meet all relevant due dates and indicate all the   firms   on whose behalf it is submitted; if necessary a separate covering sheet should list the   firms   on whose behalf a report or  data item   is submitted. Nevertheless, the requirement to provide a report or  data item , and the responsibility for the report or   data item , remains with each   firm   in the   group . However, reporting requirements that apply to a   firm , by reason of the   firm   being a member of a   financial conglomerate , are imposed on only one member of the   financial conglomerate . … 16.3.26A   G   Examples of reports covering a   group   are: (1)   the compliance reports required from   banks   under   SUP 16.6.4 R ;

PRA 2015/67  Page 20 of 31 (2)   [deleted]; (3)   [deleted]; (4)   consolidated financial reports required from   banks   under   SUP 16.12.5 R   [deleted]; (5)   consolidated reporting statements required from   securities and futures firms   under   SUP 16.12.11R   [deleted]; (6)   reporting in relation to   defined liquidity groups   under   SUP 16.4.5 R  [deleted]; …  TP 1   Transitional provisions  … TP 1.2 (1)   (2) Material to which the transitional provision applies (3)   (4) Transitional provision   (5) Transitional provision: dates in force (6) Handbook provision: coming into force … 12W [PRA]  SUP 16.12.5 R   to   SUP 16.12.7 R [deleted]  R   If   BIPRU TP 30.4 R  (Liquidity floor for certain banks) applies to a   firm   the regulatory intervention point mentioned in that   rule   is added to the list in paragraph (a) of the definition of   firm-specific liquidity stress   in the case of that   firm   for as long as  BIPRU TP 30.4 R   applies to it. [deleted] For as long as  BIPRU TP 30.4 R   applies to the  firm [deleted] At the end of period set out in column (5) [deleted] 12X [FCA]  SUP 16.12.5 R   to   SUP 16.12.7 R  R   (1)   This   rule   deals with the effect of the abolition of   data item  FSA044 by the Liquidity Standards (Miscellaneous Amendments) Instrument 2010 and of changes to the definition of   DLG by default   made by that instrument. See column 4   See column 4  (2)   The abolition of that  data item   does not have effect in relation

PRA 2015/67  Page 21 of 31 to a   firm's   reporting period for that   data item   that has begun but not ended as at 1 January 2011.  (3)   The changes to the definition of   DLG by default   do not have effect in relation to the reporting period of a  firm   that has begun but not ended as at 1 November 2010. …

PRA 2015/67  Page 22 of 31  Annex G Amendments to the General Prudential sourcebook (GENPRU)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  1.3   Valuation  …  General requirements: valuation adjustments or, in the case of an insurer or a UK ISPV, valuation adjustments or reserves  … 1.3.35   G   Reconciliation differences under GENPRU 1.3.34 R should not be reflected in   the   valuations   under   GENPRU   1.3   but   should   be   disclosed   to   the  appropriate regulator   in prudential returns.   Firms   which are subject to the reporting requirement under SUP 16.16 should disclose those reconciliation differences in the Prudent Valuation Return which they are required to submit to the   appropriate regulator   under SUP 16.16.4 R. [deleted] 1.3.35A   G   Reconciliation differences under   GENPRU 1.3.34 R   should not be reflected in   the   valuations   under   GENPRU   1.3   but   should   be   disclosed   to   the  appropriate regulator   in prudential returns.   Firms   which are subject to the reporting requirement under Chapter 13 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook should disclose those reconciliation differences in the Prudent Valuation Return which they are required to submit to the   PRA  under Chapter 13 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook. …  3.1   Application  … 3.1.2   G   GENPRU 3.1 implements the   Financial Groups Directive . However, material on the following topics is to be found elsewhere in the   Handbook   as follows: [deleted] (1)   further material on   third-country financial conglomerates   can be found in GENPRU 3.2; [deleted] (2)   SUP   15.9   contains   notification   rules   for   members   of   financial conglomerates ; [deleted] (3)   material on reporting obligations can be found in SUP 16.12.32 R and SUP 16.12.33 R; and[deleted] (4)   material on systems and controls in   financial conglomerates   can be found in SYSC 12. [deleted]

PRA 2015/67  Page 23 of 31 3.1.2A   G   GENPRU 3.1 implements the   Financial Groups Directive . However, material on the following topics is to be found elsewhere in the   Handbook   as follows: (1)   further material on   third-country financial conglomerates   can be found in GENPRU 3.2; (2)   SUP   15.9   contains   notification   rules   for   members   of   financial conglomerates ; (3)   material on reporting obligations can be found in Chapter 12 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook; and (4)   material on systems and controls in   financial conglomerates   can be found in SYSC 12.

PRA 2015/67  Page 24 of 31  Annex H Amendments to the Interim Prudential sourcebook for Insurers (IPRU-INS)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  Volume One: Rules  …  Chapter 9: Financial Reporting  …  PART V Group Capital Adequacy  … 9.42D   (1)   An insurer must provide the following information from the report prepared in accordance with   SUP 16.12.33R   rule 12.3 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook in respect of the financial year in question of the financial conglomerate identified at Stage C of the decision tree in rule 9.42C: …

PRA 2015/67  Page 25 of 31  Annex I Amendments to the Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS)  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. …  5.2   Components of capital  5.2.1AA   R   In CREDS 5.2.1 R (7) the reference to   SUP 16.12.5 R   must be read as “rule 7.1   of   the   Regulatory   Reporting   Part   of   the   PRA   Rulebook”   and   the reference to CREDS 8.2.3 G must be read as CREDS 8.2.3A G. …  8.1   Application and purpose  … 8.1.2   G   The purpose of this section is to provide additional   rules   and   guidance  relating to reporting requirements that are specific to   credit unions .   Credit unions   also need to comply with the relevant provisions of   SUP   relating to reporting, including   SUP 16.3   and   SUP 16.12 . [deleted] 8.1.2A   G   The purpose of this section is to provide additional   rules   and   guidance  relating to reporting requirements that are specific to   credit unions .   Credit unions   also need to comply with the relevant provisions of   SUP   relating to reporting, including   SUP 16.3   and the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA  Rulebook.  8.2   Reporting requirements  8.2.1   G   SUP 16.12.5 R   states that a   credit union   must submit a quarterly return. The content, reporting frequency and due date in relation to that report are shown in   CREDS 8.2.2 G . The form can be found at SUP 16 Annex 14(1)R. [deleted] [ Note:   a transitional provision applies to   SUP 16.12.5 R : see   CREDS TP 1.17 .] [ Note:   a transitional provision applies in respect of the form to be used at  SUP 16 Annex 14(1)R   (see   CREDS TP 1.4 ).] 8.2.1A   G   Rule 7.1 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook requires that a   credit union   must submit a quarterly return. The content, reporting frequency and due date in relation to that report are shown in   CREDS 8.2.2A G . The form can be found in Chapter 16 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook. …

PRA 2015/67  Page 26 of 31 8.2.2   G   This table belongs to CREDS 8.2.1 G. [deleted] Content of report   Form   Frequency   Due date Key financial data   CQ   Quarterly   One   month   after quarter end 8.2.2A   G   This table belongs to CREDS 8.2.1A G. Content of report   Form   Frequency   Due date Key financial data   CQ   Quarterly   One   month   after quarter end … 8.2.3   G   SUP 16.12.5 R   states that a   credit union   must submit an annual return. The content, reporting frequency and due date in relation to that report are shown in   CREDS 8.2.4 G . The form can be found at SUP 16 Annex 14(2)R. [deleted] [ Note:   transitional provisions apply to the requirements in   SUP 16.12.5 R  (see ) and in respect of the form to be used at   SUP 16 Annex 14(2) R   (see )  CREDS TP .] [ Note:   a transitional provision applies to   SUP 16.12.5 R : (see   CREDS TP 1.18 ).] 8.2.3A   G   Rule 7.1 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the PRA Rulebook requires that a credit union must submit an annual return. The content, reporting frequency and due date in relation to that report are shown in CREDS 8.2.4A G. The form can be found in Chapter 16 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook. 8.2.4   G   This table belongs to CREDS 8.2.3 G. [deleted] Content of report   Form   Frequency   Due date Extended financial data CY   Annually   Six   months   after financial year end 8.2.4A   G   This table belongs to CREDS 8.2.3A G. Content of report   Form   Frequency   Due date Extended financial data CY   Annually   Six   months   after financial year end … 8.2.6   R   (1)   Every   credit   union   must   send to   the   PRA   a   copy of   its audited accounts published in accordance with section 3A of the Friendly and Industrial and Provident Societies Act 1968 or provided in accordance with article 49 of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985. [deleted]

PRA 2015/67  Page 27 of 31 (2)   The accounts must: [deleted] (a)   be made up for the period beginning with the date of the   credit union's   registration or with the date to which the   credit union's  last annual accounts were made up, whichever is the later, and ending on the   credit union's   most recent financial year end; and[deleted] (b)   accompany the annual return submitted to the   PRA   under   SUP 16.12.5 R   (see   CREDS 8.2.3 G ), unless they have been submitted already[deleted] 8.2.6A   R   (1)   Every   credit   union   must   send to   the   PRA   a   copy of   its audited accounts published in accordance with section 3A of the Friendly and Industrial and Provident Societies Act 1968 or provided in accordance with article 49 of the Credit Unions (Northern Ireland) Order 1985. (2)   The accounts must: (a)   be made up for the period beginning with the date of the   credit union's   registration or with the date to which the   credit union's  last annual accounts were made up, whichever is the later, and ending on the   credit union's   most recent financial year end; and (b)   accompany the annual return submitted to the   PRA   under rule 7.1 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook (see  CREDS 8.2.3A G ), unless they have been submitted already 8.2.7   R   Every   credit union   must supply free of charge, to every member or person interested in the funds of the   credit union   who applies for it, a copy of the latest audited accounts of the   credit union   sent to the   PRA   under CREDS 8.2.6 R. [deleted] 8.2.7A   R   Every   credit union   must supply free of charge, to every member or person interested in the funds of the   credit union   who applies for it, a copy of the latest audited accounts of the   credit union   sent to the   PRA   under CREDS 8.2.6A R. 8.2.8   G   (1)   Financial   penalties   may   be   imposed   for   the   late   submission   of: [deleted] (a)   the quarterly and annual returns referred to in   SUP 16.12.5 R ; and[deleted] (b)   the audited accounts referred to in   CREDS 8.2.6 R . [deleted] (2)   Details of the policy and procedures on financial penalties are given in  DEPP . [deleted] 8.2.8A   G   (1)   Financial penalties may be imposed for the late submission of: (a)   the quarterly and annual returns referred to in rule 7.1 of the Regulatory Reporting Part of the   PRA   Rulebook; and (b)   the audited accounts referred to in   CREDS 8.2.6A R .

PRA 2015/67  Page 28 of 31 (2)   Details of the policy and procedures on financial penalties are given in the   PRA’s   ‘Statement of Policy: The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach   to   enforcement:   statutory   statements   of   policy   and procedure (April 2013)’. …  App 1.1   Key Definitions  …  total non-deferred shares  [ FCA   only]  means the total of members' share balances in a   credit union   shown in the most recent annual return to have been sent to the   PRA   under  SUP 16.12.5 R   (see   CREDS 8.2.3 G ), excluding any   deferred shares  in the   credit union .  total non-deferred shares  [ PRA   only]  means the total of members' share balances in a   credit union   shown in the most recent annual return to have been sent to the   PRA   (see  CREDS 8.2.3A G ), excluding any   deferred shares   in the   credit union . … Sch 2.2A G G   In the above table in Sch 2.2 G, the reference to CREDS 8.2.1 G shall be read as CREDS 8.2.1A G, the reference to CREDS 8.2.3 G shall be read as CREDS 8.2.3A G, and the reference to CREDS 8.2.6 G shall be read as CREDS 8.2.6A G, …  TP 1   Transitional provision  … (1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6) Material to which the transitional provision applies Transitional Provision   Transitional provisions: dates in force Handbook provisions: coming into force … 3 [FCA] [PRA]  SUP 16.12.7 R   R   The change in the applicable due date for the submission by a  credit union   of an annual return under   SUP 16.12.5 R   from 7 months to 6 months does not apply to an annual return in respect of the financial year ending on or before 31 July 2012. 31 July 2012 8 January 2012 4 [FCA] [PRA]  SUP 16 Annex 14 R   R   SUP 16 Annex 14 R , as it was in force on 31 December 2011, continues to apply to: 8 January 2012 8 January 2012

PRA 2015/67  Page 29 of 31 (i) quarterly returns for  credit unions   in respect of the quarter ending on or before 31 December 2011, and (ii) annual returns in respect of the financial year ending on or before 7 January 2012

PRA 2015/67  Page 30 of 31  Annex J Amendments to the Glossary  In this Annex new text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  total non-deferred shares  (in   CREDS ) means the total of members' share balances in a  credit union   shown in the most recent annual return to have been sent to the   appropriate regulator   under   SUP 16.7.62 R  or   Regulatory   Reporting   7.1   in   the   PRA   Rulebook   SUP 16.12.5R   (see   CREDS 8.2.3A G ), excluding any   deferred shares   in the   credit union .

PRA 2015/67  Page 31 of 31  Annex K Deletions to the PRA Handbook  Each of the following modules, sourcebooks and sections of the PRA’s Handbook is deleted: COBS 21 (Permitted Links) MIPRU (Prudential sourcebook for Mortgage and Home Finance Firms, and Insurance Intermediaries) SUP 11 (Controllers and close links) SUP 16.4 (Annual controllers report) SUP 16.5   (Annual Close Links Reports) SUP 13 (Exercise of passport rights by UK firms) SUP 13A (Qualifying for authorisation under the Act) SUP 14 (Incoming EEA firms changing details, and cancelling qualification for authorisation) SUP 16 Annex 32 (Bidding in emissions auctions return) SUP App 3 (Guidance on passporting issues) SYSC 10 (Conflicts of interest)

PRA 2015/68  Page   1   of   26  Appendix 1.8 PRA RULEBOOK: GLOSSARY INSTRUMENT (No. 3) 2015 Powers exercised  A.   The Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) makes this instrument in the exercise of the following powers and related provisions in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“the Act”): (1) section 137G (The PRA’s general rules); and (2) section 137T (General supplementary powers). B.   The rule-making powers referred to above are specified for the purpose of section 138G(2) (Rule-making instrument) of the Act.  Pre-conditions to making  C.   In accordance with section 138J of the Act (Consultation by the PRA), the PRA consulted the Financial Conduct Authority. After consulting, the PRA published a draft of proposed rules and had regard to representations made.  PRA Rulebook: Glossary Instrument (No. 3) 2015  D.   The PRA makes the rules in Annexes A to M of this instrument.  Commencement  E.   This instrument comes into force on 3 August 2015.  Citation  F.   This instrument may be cited as the Glossary Instrument (No. 3) 2015.  By order of the Board of the Prudential Regulation Authority  31 July 2015

PRA 2015/68  Page   2   of   26  Annex A Amendments to the Glossary  In the Glossary Part of the PRA Rulebook, insert the following new definitions.  advising on investments  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 53 of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Advising on investments).  advising on pension transfers and pension opt-outs  means advising on   investments   in respect of   pension transfers   and   pension opt-outs.  agreeing to carry on a regulated activity  means   the   regulated activity , specified in article 64 of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Agreeing to carry on specified kinds of activity).  AIF  means an   alternative investment fund. AIFM  means   alternative investment fund manager .  AIFM investment management functions  means investment management functions of an   AIFM   as set out in 1(a) (portfolio management) or (b) (risk management) of Annex I to   AIFMD .  AIFMD  means Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and amending Directives 2003/41/EC and 2009/65/EC and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 1095/2010.  alternative investment fund  has the meaning given in article 4(1)(a) of   AIFMD .  alternative investment fund manager  has the meaning given in article 4(1)(b) of   AIFMD .  annual report and accounts

PRA 2015/68  Page   3   of   26  means (1)   (in relation to a company incorporated in the   UK ) an annual report and annual accounts   as those terms are defined in section 471 of the Companies Act 2006 together with an auditor's report prepared in relation to those accounts under sections 495 to 497A of the same Act; (2)   (in relation to any other body) any similar or analogous documents which it is required to prepare whether by its constitution or by the law under which it is established.  arranging (bringing about) deals in investments  means the   regulated activity   specified in article 25(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  arranging safeguarding and administration of assets  that part of   safeguarding and administering investments   which consists solely of arranging for one or more other   persons   to carry on both: (a) the safeguarding of assets belonging to another; and (b) the administration of those assets.  Article 12(1) relationship  means a relationship where undertakings are linked by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349 EEC.  Article 18(5) relationship  means a relationship where undertaking are linked by participations or capital ties other than those referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of Article 18 of the  CRR .  commodity future  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . commodity option  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . consolidated basis  has the meaning in article 4(1)(48) of the   CRR .  consolidation group  means the undertakings   included in the scope of consolidation pursuant to Articles 18(1), 18(8), 19(1), 19(3) and 23 of the   CRR   and Groups 2.1- 2.3.  contract of differences  means the investment specified in article 85 of the   Regulated Activities Order.

PRA 2015/68  Page   4   of   26  contractually based investment  has the meaning provided in Article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  coordinator  means, in relation to a   financial conglomerate , the competent authority  appointed as coordinator in accordance with Article 10(1) of the   Financial Groups Directive .  core UK group  means all counterparties that: (a) are listed in a   firm’s core UK group permission ; (b) in relation to a   firm , satisfy the conditions in Article 113(6) of the   CRR ; and (c) in respect of which exposures   are exempted, under Article 400(1)(f) of the  CRR , from the application of Article 395(1) of the   CRR.  core UK group permission  means a permission given by the   PRA   under Article 113(6) of the   CRR. CREDS  means the Credit Unions sourcebook in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015.  dealing in investments as agent  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 21 of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Dealing in investments as agent).  designated investment  means a   security   or a   contractually-based investment   (other than a   funeral plan contract   and a right to or interest in a   funeral plan contract ), that is, any of the following   investments , specified in Part III of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Specified Investments), and a   long-term care insurance contract   which is a   pure protection contract : (1)   life policy (subset of article 75 (Contracts of insurance)); (2)   share ; (3)   debenture (article 77); (4)   alternative debenture (article 77A); (5)   government and public security (article 78); (6)   instruments giving entitlements to investments (article 79);

PRA 2015/68  Page   5   of   26  (7)   certificate representing certain securities (article 80); (8)   unit in a collective investment scheme (article 81); (9)   rights under a   stakeholder pension scheme   (article 82(1)) (10)   rights under a   personal pension scheme   (article 82(2)); (11)   Greenhouse gas allowances which are auctioned (article 82A), where they are a financial instrument. (12)   option ; for the purposes of the   permission   regime, this is sub-divided into: (a)   option   (excluding a   commodity option   and an   option   on a  commodity future ); (b)   commodity option   and   option   on a   commodity future ; (13)   future ; for the purposes of the   permission   regime, this is sub-divided into: (a)   future   (excluding a   commodity future   and a   rolling spot forex contract ); (b)   commodity future ; (c)   rolling spot forex contract ; (14)   contract for differences ; for the purposes of the   permission   regime, this is sub-divided into: (a) contract for differences (excluding a   spread bet   and a   rolling spot forex contract ); (b)   spread bet ; (c)   rolling spot forex contract ; (15)   rights to or interests in investments in (1) to (14) (article 89) but not including rights to or interests in rights under a   long-term care insurance contract   which is a   pure protection contract .  designated investment business  means any of the following activities, specified in Part II of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Specified Activities), which is carried on by way of business: (1)   dealing in investments as principal , but disregarding the exclusion in article 15 (Absence of holding out etc); (2)   dealing in investments as agent   but only in relation to   designated investments ;

PRA 2015/68  Page   6   of   26  (3)   the   regulated activity   of bidding in emissions auctions (article 24A of the   Regulated Activities Order )   where it is carried on by a   MiFID investment firm   (other than a UCITS investment firm, as defined in the  FCA Handbook ) in relation to a   financial instrument ; (4)   arranging (bringing about) deals in investments , but only in relation to  designated investments ; (5)   making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments , but only in relation to   designated investments ; (6)   operating a multilateral trading facility ; (7)   managing investments , but only if the assets consist of or include (or may consist of or include)   designated investments ; (8)   assisting in the administration and performance of a   contract of insurance , but only if the   contract of insurance   is a   designated investment ; (9)   safeguarding and administering investments , but only if the assets consist of or include (or may consist of or include)   designated investments ; for the purposes of the   permission   regime, this is sub- divided into: (a)   safeguarding and administration of assets (without arranging) ; (b)   arranging safeguarding and administration of assets ; (10)   sending dematerialised instructions (article 45(1)); (11)   causing dematerialised instructions to be sent (article 45(2)); (12)   establishing, operating or winding up a stakeholder pension scheme ); (13)   establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme ; (14)   providing   basic advice on a stakeholder product (article 52B); (15)   advising on investments , but only in relation to   designated investments ; for the purposes of the   permission   regime, this is sub- divided into: (a)   advising on investments   (except   pension transfers   and   pension opt-outs ); (b)   advising on pension transfers and pension opt-outs ; (16)   agreeing to carry on a regulated activity   in (1) to (11) and (15) (article 64); (17)   managing a UCITS ; (18)   acting as trustee or depositary of a UCITS   (article 51ZB);

PRA 2015/68  Page   7   of   26  (19)   managing an AIF ; (20)   acting as trustee or depositary of an AIF   (article 51ZD); (21)   establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme. dormant account fund operator  a   person   with a   Part 4A permission   for   operating a dormant account fund .  eligible counterparty  has the meaning given in the   FCA   Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 for the purposes other than for the purposes of the part of the   FCA   Handbook   (as at 31 July 2015)   in High Level Standards that has the title Principles for Businesses.  establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 52(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Establishing etc. a pension scheme) .  establishing, operating or winding-up a collective investment scheme  means the   regulated activity   specified in article or 51ZE of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Establishing etc a collective investment scheme).  establishing, operating or winding up a stakeholder pension scheme  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 52 (a) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Establishing etc. a pension scheme) . financial conglomerate  has the meaning given in point (14) of Article 2 of the   Financial Groups Directive .  Financial Groups Directive  means Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate.  funeral plan contract  means the investment specified in articles 59(2), 60 and 87 of the Regulated Activities Order.  future  means the investment specified in article 84 of the   Regulated Activities Order. GENPRU

PRA 2015/68  Page   8   of   26  means the General Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies, Insurers and Investment Firms in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015.  IMD reinsurance intermediary  has the meaning given in Article 2(6) of the   Insurance Mediation Directive .  investment  means (in accordance with sections 22(4) of   FSMA   (Regulated activities) and section 93(2) of the Financial Services Act 2012) any investment, including any asset, right or interest.  life policy  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015.  long-term care insurance contract  a   long-term insurance contract : (a)   which provides, would provide at the   policyholder 's option, or is sold or held   out   as   providing,   benefits   that   are   payable   or   provided   if   the  policyholder 's   health   deteriorates   to   the   extent   that   he   cannot   live independently without assistance and that is not expected to change; and (b)   under which the benefits are capable of being paid for periodically for all or part of the period that the   policyholder   cannot live without assistance; where 'benefits' are services, accommodation or goods necessary or desirable for the continuing care of the   policyholder   because he cannot live independently without assistance.  long-term insurance contract  means a “contract of long-term insurance” as defined in Article 3(1) of the  Regulated Activities Order .  making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments  means   the   regulated   activity ,   specified   in   article   25(2)   of   the   Regulated Activities Order   (Arranging deals in investments).  managing a UCITS  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 51ZA of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Managing a UCITS) .  managing an AIF  means the   regulated activity , specified in article 51ZC of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Managing an AIF).  managing investments

PRA 2015/68  Page   9   of   26  means the   regulated activity,   specified in article 37 of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Managing investments).  non-core large exposures group or NCLEG  has the meaning given in the Large Exposures Part.  operating a dormant account fund  means any of the   regulated activities   specified in: (1) article 63N(1)(a) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (meeting of repayment claims); or (2) article 63N(1)(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (managing dormant account funds (including the investment of such funds)).  operating a multilateral trading facility  means the   regulated activity   in article 25D of the   Regulated Activities Order .  option  means the investment specified in article 83 of the   Regulated Activities Order. pension opt-out  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . pension transfer  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . personal pension scheme  has the meaning provided in Article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  professional client  has the meaning given in the   FCA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015.  pure protection contract  means: (1) a   long-term insurance contract   in respect of which the following conditions are met: (a) the benefits under the contract are payable only on death or in respect of incapacity due to injury, sickness or infirmity; (b) the contract has no surrender value, or the consideration consists of a single   premium   and   the   surrender   value   does   not   exceed   that premium; and

PRA 2015/68  Page   10   of   26  (c) the contract makes no provision for its conversion or extension in a manner which would result in it ceasing to comply with (a) or (b); or (2) a   reinsurance contract   covering all or part of a risk to which a   person   is exposed under a   long-term insurance contract .  reinsurance contract  means a   contract of insurance   covering all or part of a risk to which a   person  is exposed under a   contract of insurance. reinsurance mediation  has the meaning given in Article 2(4) of the   Insurance Mediation Directive .  retail client  means a   client   who is neither a   professional client   or an   eligible counterparty. rolling spot forex contract  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . safeguarding and administering investments  means the   regulated activity   , specified in article 40 of the   Regulated Activities Order   (Safeguarding and administering investments).  safeguarding and administration of assets (without arranging)  that part of   safeguarding and administering investments   which consists of both: (a) the safeguarding of assets belonging to another; and (b) the administration of those assets.  security  has the meaning   provided in article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order  (Interpretation).  specified investment  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015.  spread bet  has the meaning given in the   PRA Handbook   as at 31 July 2015 . stakeholder pension scheme  has the meaning provided in Article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  UCITS

PRA 2015/68  Page   11   of   26  undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities that are established in accordance with the   UCITS Directive.  UCITS Directive  means the European Parliament and Council Directive of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( UCITS ) (No 2009/65/EC) as amended.  Amend the following definitions, where underlining indicates new text and deleted text is struck through.  branch  means (1)   (in relation to a   credit institution ): (a)   a place of business which forms a legally dependent part of a  credit institution   and which carries out directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the business of   credit institutions ; (b)   for the purposes of the   CRD   and in accordance with Article 38 of the   CRD , any number of places of business set up in the same   EEA State   by a   credit institution   with headquarters in another   EEA State   are to be regarded as a single branch; or. (2)   (in relation to an   investment firm ) has the meaning given in Article 4(1)(26) of   MiFID.  (3)   (in relation to an   insurance undertaking ) any permanent presence of the   insurance undertaking   in an   EEA State   other than that in which it has its head office is to be regarded as a single   branch , whether that presence consists of a single office which, or two or more offices each of which: (a)   is managed by the   insurance undertaking's   own staff; or (b)   is an agency of the   insurance undertaking ; or (c)   is managed by a   person   who is independent of the   insurance undertaking , but has permanent authority to act for the  insurance undertaking   as an agency would. (4)   (in relation to an   IMD insurance intermediary ): (a)   a place of business which is a part of an   IMD insurance intermediary , not being the principal place of business, which has no separate legal personality and which provides insurance mediation for which the   IMD insurance intermediary   has been registered;

PRA 2015/68  Page   12   of   26  (b)   for the purposes of the   Insurance Mediation Directive , all the places of business set up in the same   EEA State   by an   IMD insurance intermediary   with headquarters in another   EEA State  are to be regarded as a single   branch . (5)   (in relation to an   IMD reinsurance intermediary ): (a)   a place of business which is a part of an   IMD reinsurance intermediary , not being the principal place of business, which has no separate legal personality and which provides  reinsurance mediation   for which the   IMD reinsurance intermediary   has been registered; (b)   for the purposes of the   Insurance Mediation Directive , all the places of business set up in the same   EEA State   by an   IMD reinsurance intermediary   with headquarters in another   EEA State   are to be regarded as a single   branch .  Contract of insurance  (1) (in relation to a   specified investment ) the   investment , specified in article 75 of the  Regulated Activities Order   (Contracts of insurance), which is rights under a  contract of insurance   in (2) below. (2) (in relation to a contract) has the meaning given in Article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order .  IMD insurance intermediary  has the meaning given in article 2(15) of the   Insurance Mediation Directive .

PRA 2015/68  Page   13   of   26  Annex B Amendments to the Depositor Protection Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  …  1.4   Unless otherwise stated, in this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  … personal pension scheme  has the meaning given in article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order.  …  stakeholder pension scheme  has the meaning given in article 3(1) of the   Regulated Activities Order . …

PRA 2015/68  Page   14   of   26  Annex C Amendments to the Fundamental Rules Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  … cross border services  means: (1) (in relation to a   UK firm ) services provided within an   EEA State   other than the   UK  under the freedom to provide services; and (2) (in relation to an   incoming EEA firm   or an   incoming Treaty firm ) services provided within the   UK   under the freedom to provide services. …

PRA 2015/68  Page   15   of   26  Annex D Amendments to the General Provisions Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply: …  eligible counterparty  has the meaning given in the   FCA Handbook   for the purposes other than for the purposes of the part of the   FCA Handbook   in High Level Standards that has the title Principles for Businesses. …  professional client  has the meaning given in the   FCA Handbook . …  retail client  means a   client   who is neither a   professional client   or an   eligible counterparty . …

PRA 2015/68  Page   16   of   26  Annex E Amendments to the Groups Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  Article 12(1) relationship  means a relationship where undertakings are linked by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349 EEC.  Article 18(5) relationship  means a relationship where undertaking are linked by participations or capital ties other than those referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of Article 18 of the   CRR . …

PRA 2015/68  Page   17   of   26  Annex F Amendments to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  Article 12(1) relationship  means a relationship where undertakings are linked by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) Directive 83/349/EEC. …  consolidation group  means the undertakings included in the scope of consolidation pursuant to Articles 18(1), 18(8), 19(1), 19(3) and 23 of the CRR and Groups 2.1- 2.3. …  financial conglomerate  has the meaning given in point (14) of Article 2 of Directive 2002/87/EC on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate. …

PRA 2015/68  Page   18   of   26  Annex G Amendments to the Large Exposures Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  core UK group  means all counterparties that: (a) are listed in a   firm’s core UK group permission ; (b) in relation to a   firm , satisfy the conditions in Article 113(6) of the   CRR ; and (c) in respect of which   exposures   are exempted, under Article 400(1)(f) of the   CRR , from the application of Article 395(1) of the   CRR. … core UK group permission  means a permission given by the   PRA   under Article 113(6) of the   CRR. …

PRA 2015/68  Page   19   of   26  Annex H Amendments to the Notifications Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply: …  branch  (1) (in relation to a   credit institution ) means: (a) a place of business which forms a legally dependent part of a   credit institution  and which carries out directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the business of   credit institutions ; (b) for the purposes of the   CRD   and in accordance with Article 38 of the   CRD , any number of places of business set up in the same   EEA State   by a   credit institution   with headquarters in another   EEA State   are to be regarded as a single branch; (2) (in relation to an   investment firm ) has the meaning given in Article 4(1)(26) of  MiFID ; and (3) (in relation to an   insurance undertaking ) any permanent presence of the  insurance undertaking   in an   EEA State   other than that in which it has its head office is to be regarded as a single   branch , whether that presence consists of a single office which, or two or more offices each of which: (a) is managed by the   insurance undertaking's   own staff; or (b) is an agency of the   insurance undertaking ; or (c) is managed by a   person   who is independent of the   insurance undertaking , but has permanent authority to act for the   insurance undertaking   as an agency would. …  consolidation group  means the   undertakings   included in the scope of consolidation pursuant to Articles 18(1), 18(8), 19(1), 19(3) and 23 of the   CRR   and Groups 2.1- 2.3.  Coordinator

PRA 2015/68  Page   20   of   26  means, in relation to a   financial conglomerate , the   competent authority   appointed as coordinator in accordance with Article 10(1) of the   Financial Groups Directive . …  financial conglomerate  has the meaning given in point (14) of Article 2 of the   Financial Groups Directive .  Financial Groups Directive  means Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of   credit institutions ,   insurance undertakings   and   investment firms   in a   financial conglomerate . …

PRA 2015/68  Page   21   of   26  Annex I Amendments to the Policyholder Protection Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  AIF  means an   alternative investment fund. AIFM  means   alternative investment fund manager .  AIFMD  means Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and amending Directives 2003/41/EC and 2009/65/EC and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 1095/2010.  alternative investment fund  means (in accordance with article 4(1)(a) of   AIFMD ) a collective investment undertaking, including investment compartments thereof, which: (a) raises capital from a number of investors, with a view to investing it in accordance with a defined investment policy for the benefit of those investors; and (b) does not require authorisation pursuant to article 5 of the   UCITS Directive .  alternative investment fund manager  means (in accordance with article 4(1)(b) of   AIFMD ) a legal person whose regular business is performing   AIFM investment management functions   for one or more   AIF .

PRA 2015/68  Page   22   of   26  AIFM investment management functions  means investment management functions of an   AIFM   as set out in 1(a) (portfolio management) or (b) (risk management) of Annex I to   AIFMD . …  investment  means (in accordance with sections 22(4) of   FSMA   (Regulated activities) and section 93(2) of the Financial Services Act 2012) any investment, including any asset, right or interest. …  UCITS Directive  means the European Parliament and Council Directive of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (No 2009/65/EC) as amended.

PRA 2015/68  Page   23   of   26  Annex J Amendments to the Public Disclosure Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  … 1.2   In this Part, the following definitions shall apply:  annual report and accounts  (1) (in relation to a company incorporated in the   UK ) an annual report and annual accounts as those terms are defined in: (a) section 262(1) of the Companies Act 1985, together with an auditor's report prepared in relation to those accounts under section 235 of the same Act where these provisions are applicable; or (b) section 471 of the Companies Act 2006 together with an auditor's report prepared in relation to those accounts under sections 495 to 497 of the same Act; (2) (in relation to any other body) any similar or analogous documents which it is required to prepare whether by its constitution or by the law under which it is established.

PRA 2015/68  Page   24   of   26  Annex K Amendments to the FSCS Management Expenses Levy Limit and Base Costs Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  …  operating a dormant account fund  means any of the   regulated activities   specified in: (1) article 63N(1)(a) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (meeting of repayment claims); or (2) article 63N(1)(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (managing dormant account funds (including the investment of such funds)).

PRA 2015/68  Page   25   of   26  Annex L Amendments to the Dormant Account Scheme Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  …  dormant account fund operator  a   person   with a   Part 4A permission   for   operating a dormant account fund .  … operating a dormant account fund  means any of the   regulated activities   specified in: (1) article 63N(1)(a) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (meeting of repayment claims); or (2) article 63N(1)(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (managing dormant account funds (including the investment of such funds)).

PRA 2015/68  Page   26   of   26  Annex M Amendments to the Management Expenses in Respect of Relevant Schemes Part  In this Annex deleted text is struck through.  1   APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS  …  dormant account fund operator  a   person   with a   Part 4A permission   for   operating a dormant account fund .  … operating a dormant account fund  means any of the   regulated activities   specified in: (1) article 63N(1)(a) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (meeting of repayment claims); or (2) article 63N(1)(b) of the   Regulated Activities Order   (managing dormant account funds (including the investment of such funds)).


