---
title: "PS325 – Ps325app1"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/statement-of-policy/2025/ps325app1.pdf"
---

# PS325 – Ps325app1

The   Prudential   Regulation  Authority’s   approach   to   policy  Statement   of   policy   1/25  February   2025

Contents  1:   Introduction   2  Document   structure   2  2:   Our   objectives   and   regulatory   principles   4  The   PRA’s   framework   of   objectives   and   regulatory   principles   4  Summary   table   of   PRA   objectives   and   regulatory   principles   6  Primary   objectives   7  Secondary   objectives   7  PRA - specific   considerations   7  3:   Our   approach   to   our   objectives   and   regulatory   principles   10  Approach   to   our   primary   objectives   10  Approach   to   secondary   objectives   13  Approach   to   our   regulatory   principles   23  4:   Our   approach   to   international   engagement   and   collaboration   24  Our   international   engagement   25  Our   approach   to   implementing   international   standards   27  Our   approach   to   informing   assessments   of   other   jurisdictions’   regulatory   frameworks   29  5.   The   policy   cycle   31  Phase   1:   initiation   36  Phase   2:   development   41  Phase   3:   implementation   44  Phase   4:   evaluation   45  6.   Delivering   a   first - rate   PRA   Rulebook   48  (a)   Presenting   our   Rulebook   on   an   easy - to - use   website   Error!   Bookmark   not   defined.  (b)   Supporting   efficient   policymaking   through   streamlined   policy   document   formats   50  (c)   Adopting a clear and consistent approach to the structure and language used in our  policies   51  Appendix   1   –   References   for   Box   1   52  ©   Bank   of   England   2025  Prudential   Regulation   Authority   |   20   Moorgate   |   London   EC2R   6DA

1:   Introduction  1.1   We,   the   Prudential   Regulation   Authority   (PRA),   as   part   of   the   Bank   of   England   (the  Bank),   are   the   UK’s   prudential   regulator   for banks,   building   societies,   credit   unions, insurance  companies, and designated investment firms (referred to collectively in this document as  ‘firms’).  1.2   This   document   explains   how   we   approach   policy   under   the   regulatory   framework   set   out  in the Financial Services Act 2000 (FSMA or ‘the Act’). We also refer to the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2023 (FSMA 2023) and the amendments it made to FSMA. 1   The  document acts as a standing reference that will be revised as appropriate, including in  response   to   significant   legislative   and   other   developments   that   result   in   changes   to   our  approach.  1.3   This document serves three purposes. First, it enhances transparency and aids  accountability (including to Parliament) by describing what we seek to achieve and how we  intend   to   achieve   it.   Second,   it helps   firms   and   the   public   understand   how   we   make   policy.   It  communicates to firms our approach to making policy that applies to them, and their role in  that process. Third, it meets the statutory requirement for us to issue guidance on how we  intend to advance our objectives. The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to policy  document (approach document) sits alongside requirements and expectations as published  in the PRA Rulebook (the Rulebook) and our policy publications, publications on our  approach to evaluation and cost benefit analysis (CBA), as well as our approach to  supervision publications. 2  Document   structure  1.4   Chapter   2   summarises   our   framework   of   objectives   and   regulatory   principles.  1.5   Chapter   3   describes   how   we   approach   our   primary   and   secondary   objectives,   our  regulatory principles and the interactions between them.  1.6   Chapter 4   describes why and how we engage internationally to pursue our objectives,  including the   development   and   implementation of international standards. It outlines how the  integration   of the   global financial system benefits the   UK financial system while also   creating  risks   and   sets   out   how   we   respond   to   these   risks.   It   also   describes   how   we   take   an   outcome -  1   Many of the provisions applying to us, as described in this document, are in the Financial Services and  Markets   Act   2000   (FSMA   2000)   but   were   amended   or   inserted   by   FSMA   2023.   However,   for simplicity,   we  refer to FSMA 2023 when referencing these new provisions under which we are now operating. See:  https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/29/contents.  2   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/pras - approach - to - supervision - of -  the - banking - and - insurance - sectors.

based   approach   to   advising   HM   Treasury   (HMT)   on   assessments   of   other   jurisdictions’  regulatory frameworks.  1.7   Chapter 5   describes our approach to creating and maintaining our prudential policy  framework,   which   we   refer   to   as   the   ‘policy   cycle’. We   explain   that   the   policy   cycle   consists   of  four phases: initiation, development, implementation, and evaluation; and we explain the  approach we take to each phase.  1.8   Chapter   6   describes   our   approach   to the   Rulebook.   It   outlines   the   principles   that   guide  our approach to   the Rulebook, with a view to   making it as   accessible, efficient,   usable and  clear as possible.

2:   Our   objectives   and   regulatory   principles  This   chapter   describes   the   framework   of   objectives   and   regulatory   principles   within   which we  operate.  The   PRA’s   framework   of   objectives   and   regulatory   principles  Objectives  2.1   We   have two   primary   objectives   when   making   policy:  •   when   discharging   our   general   functions, 3   we   must,   so   far   as   is   reasonably   possible,  act in a way which advances our general objective of promoting the safety and  soundness of PRA - authorised persons; and  •   in relation to insurance activity, we must also, so far as is reasonably possible,  advance   the   insurance   objective   of   contributing   to   the   securing   of   an   appropriate  degree of protection for those who are or may become policyholders.  2.2   FSMA requires   that we advance the general objective primarily in three ways: by seeking  to   ensure   that   the   business   of   PRA - authorised   persons   is   carried out   in   a   way   that   avoids   any  adverse effect on the stability of the UK financial system; by seeking to minimise the adverse  effect that the failure of a PRA - authorised person could be expected to have on the stability  of the UK financial system; and by seeking to avoid adverse effects on continuity of provision  of core banking services by ring - fenced bodies. The primary objectives do not however  require us to ensure that no PRA - authorised firm fails.  2.3   Our primary objectives rank above our other considerations when making policy. When  discharging   our   general   functions   in   a   way   that   advances   the   primary   objectives,   we   must,   so  far as is reasonably possible, act in a way which facilitates our secondary objectives. The  secondary objectives are engaged only when we are proposing to perform our general  functions in pursuit of the general objective and the insurance objective. They do not rank  above the primary objectives. We have two secondary objectives; a secondary competition  objective; and a secondary competitiveness and growth objective. These are of equal  standing.  •   The   secondary   competition   objective   requires   us   to   facilitate   effective   competition   in  the markets for services provided by the firms we supervise;  3   This   includes   making   rules   and   technical   standards,   preparing   and   issuing   codes,   and   determining   the  general policy and principles by reference to which the PRA performs its functions under FSMA.

•   The   secondary   competitiveness   and   growth   objective   requires us   to   facilitate,   subject  to aligning with relevant international standards, the international competitiveness of  the UK economy (including in particular the financial services sector through the  contribution of PRA - authorised persons), and its growth in the medium to long - term.  Regulatory principles  2.4   When making policy, we must ‘have regard’ to certain public policy considerations set by  parliament and government. These are derived from a range of legal sources (eg those in  section 3B of FSMA and others), and we interpret each as having equal standing. The legal  sources are described below and outlined in Table 1. We define these ‘regulatory principles’  as   those   in   section   3B   of   FSMA   and   other   matters   that we   are   required   or   should   have   regard  to. For simplicity, we refer to all these matters as ‘regulatory principles’ throughout this  document where helpful to do so.  2.5   FSMA   requires   that   we   must   ‘have   regard’   to   a   number   of   regulatory   principles   when  discharging our general functions. These principles relate to: the efficient use of our  resources; the proportionality of our regulation; contributing towards the government  achieving compliance with its net zero emissions targets and environmental targets; 4  consumer   responsibility;   responsibility   of   firms’   senior   management   for   compliance;  recognition of differences between businesses; publication of information; and the  transparent exercise of the PRA’s functions.  2.6   HMT has the power to specify additional regulatory principles by statutory instruments  made   by   parliamentary   affirmative   procedure. We   must   have   regard   to   any   specified   matters  that are relevant to the making of the rules in question. The specification of a matter may  apply generally to the making of rules or be limited in whatever way HMT consider  appropriate. HMT also has a power to make policy statements on Sustainability Disclosure  Requirements (SDR). We must have regard to any policy statement on SDR made by HMT  when making rules or issuing guidance in connection with disclosure concerning matters  relating to sustainability.  2.7   Under   provisions   introduced   into   FSMA   by   the Financial   Services   Act   2021   (‘FS   Act’), we  must ‘have regard’ to certain regulatory principles when making Capital Requirements  Regulation (CRR) rules (as well as holding company rules that are not CRR rules). CRR  rules are defined in section 144A of FSMA 5 . Broadly, they are rules which replace certain  CRR provisions or implement certain Basel standards. These include: the relevant Basel  standards; the relative standing of the UK as a place for internationally active credit  institutions   and investment   firms   to   be   based   or   to carry   on   activities;   the   provision   of   finance  4   Compliance   with   the   net - zero   emissions   targets   and   environmental   targets   was   added   by   FSMA   2023.   The  net - zero   element   was   commenced   on   29   August   2023.   The   Environmental   Act   2021   targets   element   has  commenced on 1 January 2025.  5   As   amended   by   The   Prudential   Regulation   of   Credit   Institutions   (Meaning   of   CRR Rules   and   Recognised  Exchange) (Amendment) Regulations 2024.

to UK businesses and consumers on a sustainable basis in the medium and long term; and  the 2050 net - zero target in the Climate Change Act 2008 (for rules made after 1 January  2022) 6 . The definition of CRR rules includes ‘holding company rules’ made under section  192XA   of   FSMA.   We   must   also   consider,   and   consult   HMT   on,   the   likely   effect   of   CRR   rules  on   relevant   equivalence decisions.   FSMA   2023   includes   a   provision   enabling   HMT   to   delete  the CRR specific regulatory principles.  2.8   In   addition   to   the   requirements   in   FSMA,   the   Bank   of   England   Act   1998   provides   that   the  Prudential Regulation Committee (PRC) should have regard to aspects of the government’s  economic policy recommended by HMT when considering how to pursue its objectives and  apply the regulatory principles. HMT makes these recommendations in a letter to the PRC,  and updates the letter at least once per parliament. Under a change introduced by FSMA  2023, the PRC is required to respond to the recommendations. 7   These recommendations  may   have   multiple   components   that   we   need   to   take   into   account   (see   Table   1).  2.9   Other   cross - cutting   legal   requirements   also   apply   to   regulatory policymaking,   including:  •   the   public   sector   equality   duty   in   the   Equality   Act   2010 8 ;   and  •   having   regard   to   the   principles   of   good   regulation   under   the   Legislative   and   Regulatory  Reform Act (LRRA) 2006 9   and the Regulators’ Code 2014 10 .  Summary   table   of   PRA   objectives   and   regulatory   principles  2.10   Table   1   summarises   our   framework   of   objectives   and   regulatory   principles.   This   includes  considerations in legislation specific to us, and cross - cutting legal requirements that apply to  regulatory policymaking in general (subject to specific nuances of application).  2.11   For practical purposes, we may group (or ‘cluster’) factors that are relevant to each  other   in   order   to   support   our   analysis   and   presentation   of   the   regulatory   principles (as   broadly  defined in the previous section). At the same time we recognise and carefully consider the  nuances of individual regulatory principles. We also account for the fact that certain  regulatory principles   are relevant across   thematic groupings. For example,   the proportionality  of our regulation has implications for both competition and competitiveness and growth.  2.12   Whether   we   cluster   our   regulatory   principles   is   a   case - by - case   decision   and   depends   on  the circumstances. Clustering is designed to capture overlaps and thematic similarities  6   See:   https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/27/contents .  7   We   refer   to   this   as   the   ‘PRC   letter’.   Recommendations   for   the   Prudential   Regulation   Committee   letter  (November   2024):   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/letter/2024/prc - remit - letter -  2024.pdf .  8   See:   https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents .  9   See:   https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/51.  10   See:   http s://www.gov.uk/government/publications/regulators - code .

between them. In Table 1, the dark shading shows those which relate to our secondary  competition objective, and the light shading shows those which relate to the secondary  competitiveness   and   growth   objective.   This   reflects   the   approach   that   we   take   in   practice  (see Chapter 3 of this document).  Table   1   –   The   PRA’s   objectives   and   regulatory   principles 11  Primary   objectives  Promote   safety   and   soundness   FSMA   2000  Contribute   to   the   securing   of   an   appropriate   degree   of  protection for policyholders  FSMA   2000  Secondary   objectives  Facilitate effective competition in the markets for services  provided   by   PRA - authorised   persons   in   carrying   on   regulated  activities  FSMA   2000  Facilitate, subject to aligning with relevant international  standards, the international competitiveness of the UK  economy   (including   in   particular   the   financial   services   sector  through   the   contribution   of   PRA - authorised   persons),   and   its  growth in the medium to long - term (does not apply to rules  and policy made in connection with our implementation of  Basel 3.1)  FSMA   2000  PRA - specific   considerations  Competition   grouping  Proportionality   of   our   regulation   FSMA   2000  Recognition   of   differences   between   businesses   FSMA   2000  Consumer   responsibility   FSMA   2000  Impact   on   mutuals   FSMA   2000  Competitiveness   and   growth   grouping  Government’s financial service sector policy, and its  priority   to   promote   growth   and   competitiveness,   including:  HMT   recommendations  letter to PRC 12  •   Contribution   of   the   financial   services   sector   to   overall  economic growth  •   Creating a regulatory environment which facilitates  growth   through   supporting   competition   and   innovation  •   Maintaining   and   enhancing   the   UK’s   position   as   world -  leading global finance hub  11   Table   accurate   as   at   20   February   2025.  12   Recommendations   for   the   Prudential   Regulation   Committee   letter   (November   2024):  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/letter/2024/prc - remit - letter - 2024.pdf .

•   Leading   the   world   in   sustainable   finance  •   Ensuring   the   UK’s   capital   markets   are   competitive   and  support UK growth  •   Reinforcing   financial   inclusion   and   supporting   home  ownership  The desirability of sustainable growth in the economy of  the UK in the medium or long term (only applies to rules  and   policy   made   in   connection   with   our   implementation   of  Basel 3.1)  FSMA   2000  Relevant   Basel   standards*   FSMA   2000  Relative   standing   of   the   UK*   FSMA   2000  Provision   of   finance   to   UK   businesses   and   consumers   on  a sustainable basis*  FSMA   2000  Climate   grouping  Net - zero   emissions   target   in   Climate   Change   Act   2008  and Environmental targets in Environmental Act 2021  FSMA   2000  HMT policy statements on Sustainability Disclosure  Requirements (SDR) when making rules or issuing  guidance   in   connection   with   disclosure   concerning   matters  relating to sustainability 13  FSMA   2000  Regulatory   best   practice  Transparent   exercise   of   the   PRA’s   functions   FSMA   2000  Publication   of   information   FSMA   2000  Efficient   use   of   resources   FSMA   2000  Legislative   and   Regulatory   Reform   Act   (LRRA)   principles  of good regulation and the Regulators’ Code 2014  LRRA   2006  Others   (not   grouped)  Responsibility   of   firms’   senior   management   for   compliance   FSMA   2000  Any   matters   specified   in   regulations   made   by   HMT 14   FSMA   2000  Cross - cutting   statutory   legal   requirements  Public   sector   equality   duty   Equality   Act   2010  13   As   at   20   February   2025,   HMT   has   not   yet   issued   any   policy   statements   on   SDR.  14   FSMA   2023   gives   HMT   the   power   to   specify   additional   ‘have   regards’   by   affirmative   SI.   These   ‘specified  matters’ may apply generally to the making of rules or be limited in whatever way HMT considers  appropriate.   Since   January   2024,   when   making   rules   relating   to   securitisation,   the   PRA   must 'have   regard'  to the coherence of the overall framework for the regulation of securitisation as set out in 138EA of FSMA  2000 and Regulation 8 of the Securitisation Regulations 2024.

* Only applies to rules made in connection with our implementation of Basel 3.1 which are  either   CRR   rules   or   rules   made   under   section   192XA   of FSMA   2000   that   are   not   CRR   rules.

3:   Our   approach   to   our   objectives   and  regulatory principles  This   chapter   describes   the   approach   that   we   take   to   pursuing   our   objectives   when   we   make  policy. It also describes our approach to considering our regulatory principles.  Approach   to   our   primary   objectives  3.1   The   UK   is   a   leading   international   financial   centre with   a   surplus   of   financial   services   trade  of £73.2 billion in 2023 15 . The size and international importance of the UK financial system  has led the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to refer to UK financial stability as a ‘global  public good’. 16  3.2   The   financial   services   sector   is   an   important   part   of   the   UK   economy.   It   contributed  £208.2 billion to the UK economy in 2023, 8.8% of total economic output. 17   The UK financial  sector supports the wider economy through its provision of vital services. Companies and  households   rely   on   financial   firms   to   save   and   invest,   borrow,   make   payments,   and   distribute  and pool risks. In fulfilling these critical functions, UK financial firms underpin core economic  activities,   as   well   as   facilitate   innovation.   A   well - functioning   financial   system   supports   a  healthy   and   dynamic   UK   economy   overall.  3.3   The UK financial sector also has the potential to be a source of economic distress, as  evidenced by the global financial crisis (2007 - 08). That crisis led to severe economic  contraction and   taxpayer   bailouts   of   financial   institutions.   At   its   peak,   total UK   government  support   for   the   financial   system   in   cash   and   guarantees   amounted   to   almost   £1.2   trillion. 18  3.4   Strong   prudential   standards   are   an   essential   component   of   mitigating   the   risks   of   financial  crises and achieving wider financial stability. Resilient financial institutions, particularly those  which are ring - fenced, 19   are better able to withstand shocks while ensuring the sustained  provision   of   vital   services   to   the   wider   economy.  3.5   Research   and   experience   demonstrates   the   importance   of   reducing   the   risk   of   financial  crises in light of their high economic cost, and the value of regulatory independence in  15   See:   https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/research - briefings/sn06193/ .  16   See   the   Staff   Concluding   Statement   of   the   2023   Article   IV   Mission:  https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2023/05/22/mcs052323 - united - kingdom - staff - concluding -  statement - 2023 - article - iv - mission .  17   See:   https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/research - briefings/sn06193/ .  18   See   section   1:   https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/research - briefings/sn05748/ .  19   For   more   information   on   ring - fencing,   see:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/key -  initiatives/ring - fencing .

reducing that risk. The independence of supervisors from governments is one of the  International Association of Insurance Supervisors’ (IAIS) core principles for insurance  supervision, and one of the Basel Committee’s core principles for effective banking  supervision   (Basel   Committee   on   Banking   Supervision,   2012). 20   Compliance   with   these  principles   is   regularly   assessed   by   the IMF   and   the   World   Bank.  Box   1:   financial   crises   and   the   role   of   regulatory   independence   in   financial   stability  There   is   clear   evidence   that   financial   crises   are   costly,   and   that   regulatory   independence  promotes financial stability.  a)   The   cost   of   financial   crises  There   is   a   substantial   body   of   literature   estimating   the   economic   costs   of   banking   crises,   in  terms of GDP forgone, to be very large on average. Differences between the results of  these studies relate to, among other things, the persistence of such losses; the countries  included in the sample; and the approach used to define a crisis.  The Basel Long - term Economic Impact (LEI) study (BCBS, 2010) 21   reviewed academic  studies   that   used   various   approaches   to   measure   the   cost   of   banking   crises.   The   LEI   study  found   that   around   half   of   the   studies   reviewed   had   allowed   for   GDP   to   be   on   a   permanently  lower   path   following   a   crisis.   The   remaining   studies   had   measured   the   crisis   cost   by  considering   the   period   from   peak   GDP   to   the   point   output   catches   up   with   its   pre - crisis  peak, or by assuming that crises last a fixed number of years.  The LEI study reports a median drop in output of 9% (across studies which compare GDP  levels   at   the   beginning   of   the   crisis   to   the   trough   or   to   the   point   when   its   growth   recovers   to  its pre - crisis trend). Studies that found a permanent gap between the pre and post crisis  implied growth path estimate this gap to be between 2 and 10%, with a median of 6%.  The   LEI   study   also   highlighted   that   the   literature   examining   the   cumulative   costs   of   banking  crises find large losses. The median cumulative output loss across comparable studies is  63% of pre - crisis output. The average loss is higher, exceeding 100%. For studies that  assess cumulative costs of crises over a specified period (Hoggarth et al, 2002; Laeven  and Valencia, 2008; Haugh et al, 2009; Cechetti et al, 2009), which implicitly assume that  effects are only transitory, the median cumulative loss estimate   is 19%. Studies that  explicitly   allow   for   permanent   effects   (Boyd   et   al,   2005;   Haldane,   2010)   have   a   much   higher  median estimate of cumulative loss, equal to 158%.  20   Similarly,   the   Financial   Stability   Board   includes   the   need   for   sufficient   independence   for   supervisors   among  its   recommendations   to   improve   the   intensity   and   effectiveness   of   supervision   (Financial   Stability   Board,  2010).  21   See:   http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs173.pdf.

Romer and Romer (2015) estimate the costs of crises for advanced economies. Such  economies generally experience lower costs of crises, as they tend to have greater  capacity to use monetary and fiscal policy to offset the negative impact of a crisis. They  estimate   peak - to - trough   losses   to   be   4%   of   GDP   (below   the   LEI’s   9%),   and   long - run   losses  equal to 3% (below the LEI’s 6%). The LEI study considered a mix of advanced and  emerging market economies, where such capacity is less likely.  Brooke   et   al   (2015)   extended   Romer   and   Romer   (2015)   to   tailor   estimates   to   the   UK.   They  estimate average peak - to - trough losses to be 5% of GDP and long - run losses be 4% of  GDP for a generic advanced economy with characteristics closer to the UK. Assuming  crises have permanent costs and an effective resolution regime, Brooke et al estimate the  cumulative cost of crisis to be 43% of GDP   lower than the 63% estimated by the LEI,  which assumed crisis cost to have a less permanent effect.  BCBS (2019) reviewed more recent studies on the cost of crises and concluded that the  estimates reported in LEI (2010) stand up reasonably well to these later studies, some of  which   incorporate   effects   of   other   post - crisis   reforms.   Considering   the beneficial   effects   of  Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) and enhanced resolution regimes, Cline (2017)  estimates cumulative cost of crisis of 64% of GDP, while Fender and Lewrick (2016) and  Firestone et al (2017) estimate such costs to range between 63% to 100% of GDP and  between 41% to 99% of GDP respectively.  b)   The   role   of   regulatory   independence   in   financial   stability  Since   the   global   financial   crisis   (2007 - 08)   financial   regulators   and   supervisors   have   been  given   increased   independence,   and   there   is   evidence   that   this   operational   independence  contributes to long - term growth by promoting financial stability.  Quintyn and Taylor, (2002) and Herrera et al (2020) find that delegating responsibility for  regulation and supervision to independent agencies can have a beneficial effect by  insulating regulation and supervision from electoral cycles. Das et al (2002) note that if  banking executives know in advance that insolvent banks will be closed, and lobbying  efforts will fail, they will behave more prudently, thereby reducing the likelihood of bank  failures and a financial crisis. Building on work by Klomp and de Haa n (2009) and Dincer  and Eichengreen (2014), Fraccaroli et al (2020) explore the impact of regulatory  independence on the stability of the banking system. They use a dataset of reforms to  regulatory   and   supervisory   independence   for   43   countries   from   1999 - 2019,   combined   with  an index with bank - level data, to investigate the impact of reforms to independence on  financial stability. From this, they find that reforms that bring greater regulatory and  supervisory independence are associated with fewer non - perform ing loans in banks’  balance sheets (an indicator for financial stability). In addition, they provide evidence that  these improvements do not come at the cost of bank efficiency and profitability. Overall,

Approach   to   secondary   objectives  3.6   We have two secondary objectives: to facilitate effective competition in the markets for  services provided by PRA - authorised firms carrying on regulated activities; and to facilitate,  subject to aligning with relevant international standards, the international competitiveness of  the   UK   economy   (including,   in   particular,   the   financial   services   sector   through   the   contribution  of PRA - authorised persons), and its growth in the medium to long - term. 3.7 There is a  complementary relationship, rather than a trade - off, between our primary and secondary  objectives. Our approach to pursuing our primary objectives is grounded in maintaining a  strong and dynamic UK economy and financial stability is key to underpin and facilitate  competitiveness and growth. Effective competition, by supporting the efficient delivery of vital  services and a strong   and dynamic financial sector, can reinforce the medium - term growth of  the economy.  3.8   The secondary objectives are engaged when the PRA exercises its general functions.  This includes making rules and technical standards, preparing and issuing codes, and  determining the general policy and principles by reference to which the PRA performs its  functions   under   FSMA.   Therefore,   the   secondary   objectives   are   engaged   when   we   discharge  our general functions in a way that pursues our primary objectives. For example, we make  rules setting capital and liquidity requirements, which are important tools in the pursuit of our  primary objectives. When doing so, we consider whether different policy options would have  a positive or negative effect on competition, and/or on competitiveness and growth. Where  different options are available, and it is reasonably possible to do so, we choose an option  that appropriately advances our secondary objectives while also advancing our primary  objectives.  their   results   show   that   operational   independence   of   regulators   and   supervisors   is   beneficial  for financial stability.  Finally,   greater   financial   stability   (ie   smoother   domestic   or   global   financial   cycles)   is   likely   to  lead to smoother business cycles since these two cycles are synchronised ( Claessens et  al, 201 1;   Gerba, 2015 ;   Aldasoro et al, 2020 ). This is relevant to the effect of regulatory  independence in reducing (macro) economic volatility.  This is consistent with the literature examining the link between regulatory/supervisory  independence and long - term economic outcomes through the promotion of higher  prudential standards.   Barth et al (2013)   find that supervisory independence is positively  associated with bank efficiency. Furthermore, they find that the effect of supervisory  independence   on   bank   efficiency   is   particularly   strong   in   countries   where   the   regulator   has  greater supervisory   powers, underlining the importance of the link between regulatory   and  supervisory independence, higher prudential standards and bank efficiency.

3.9   Our secondary objectives are   relevant not only when we   make   new policy but also when  reviewing existing policy, as updating policy is also considered a discharge of our general  functions. That   means   we   can   choose   to   review   a   policy   based   on   our   secondary   objectives.  When doing so, we   can consider an amendment that   reduces or raises prudential standards  or   has   a   neutral   impact,   provided   that   the   updated   policy advances   our   primary   objectives   by  maintaining an appropriate level of safety and soundness, and an appropriate degree of  insurance policyholder protection.  3.10   We take a proactive approach to pursuing both our secondary objectives. We identify  opportunities to advance our secondary objectives through our practical supervisory  experience, industry feedback, analysis, or research. We have a centre of expertise and  specialists   who   focus   specifically   on   the   secondary   objectives. There   are   certain   cases   where  the secondary objectives do not apply; for example, when we take firm specific   actions   which  are not an exercise of general functions.  Approach   to   our   secondary   competition   objective  3.11   Our   secondary   competition   objective   requires   that   effective   competition   between   firms   is  facilitated, so far as is reasonably possible, as we discharge our general functions in a way  that advances the primary objectives. Effective competition can improve the supply of  financial services to   the real economy   and encourage innovation and efficiency among   firms.  3.12   In facilitating effective competition, we pursue competition that encourages the long -  term   viability   of   firms   and   the   products   and   services   provided   by   customers.   We   do   not   aim   to  create an environment where firms can gain short - term competitive advantages through  unsustainable business practices. Such competition where firms adopt business models that  are not viable can undermine our objectives.  3.13   We   have   identified   effective   competition   as   being   characterised   by   conditions   where:  •   Suppliers compete to offer a choice of products or services on the most attractive  terms   to   customers,   such   as   lower   prices   or   better   quality.   At   the   same   time,   suppliers  appropriately price in the risks associated with their businesses such that they have  confidence in their ability to meet their service obligations.  •   Customers have the confidence to shop around thanks to the fact that firms are  subject to strong and proportionate prudential standards. Products and services can  be obtained,   and customers receive the products and services they   expect,   at   a price  that   allows   suppliers   to   earn   a   return   on   their   investment   commensurate   with   the   level  of risk taken.  •   It   is   possible   for   suppliers,   including   those   offering   new   products   and   services,   to   enter  the market and to expand; and suppliers offering products or services on unattractive  terms, or which are unable to meet their obligations, to exit the market in an orderly  fashion.

3.14   Our proactive approach to the secondary competition objective is embedded in our  internal   policymaking   and   supervisory   processes   in   several   ways. 22   Our   Annual   Reports   set  out the programme of work we have undertaken, and how this has materially influenced  policy outcomes.  3.15   This proactive approach to the secondary competition objective has actively influenced  policy   outcomes.   For   example,   we   have   launched   initiatives   to   facilitate   effective   competition  in retail banking. We achieved this by making the calculation of regulatory capital  requirements more proportionate, levelling the playing field across the sector, and reducing  barriers to entry. 23   This included narrowing the gap between capital requirements based on  standardised   approaches   (SA)   to   credit   risk   and   those   based   on   internal   ratings - based   (IRB)  models where they are unduly large. We also established the New Bank Start - up Unit  (NBSU) 24   and we have developed the ‘Strong and Simple ’ 25   initiative to significantly simplify  the   prudential   framework   for   small   banks   and   building   societies. We   also   launched   initiatives  to   facilitate   effective   competition   in   the   insurance   sector,   such   as   the   and   the New   Insurer  Start - up Unit (NISU) 26   and an optional   mobilisation stage for new insurers with the aim of  facilitating entry into UK insurance markets.  Approach   to   our   secondary   competitiveness   and   growth   objective  3.16   We are also proactive in our approach to the secondary competitiveness and growth  objective (SCGO).This means that we actively look for opportunities to facilitate the UK’s  competitiveness   and   growth in   our   regulatory   framework   and   how   we   operate   it.   Where   there  is opportunity to do so, we:  •   prioritise   new   and   additional   work   to   pursue   the   SCGO;  •   maintain   thought   leadership on   competitiveness   and   growth   issues,   including   by  investing in research, industry engagement and internal analysis; and  •   engage   in   international   fora,   to   influence   international   policymaking   and   the   setting   of  international standards (see Chapter 4 for information about the PRA’s approach to  international engagement).  22   This   includes:   (i)   Competition   considerations   are   taken   into   account   from   an   early   stage   of   policy  development,   with   all   formal   governance   papers   including   analysis   of   the   proposed   policy   on   competition.   (ii)  Periodic review of firms’ responses to regulation are undertaken to promote consistent interpretation of our  rules and guidance, supporting a level playing field and thus advancing effective competition. (iii) Research  is undertaken to better understand how PRA policies can affect competition.  23   For   further   information   on   these   initiatives,   see:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2024/july/pra - annual - report - 2023 - 24 .  24   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/new - bank - start - up - unit .  25   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/strong - and - simple .  26   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/new - insurer - start - up - unit .

3.17   When determining how to pursue the secondary competitiveness and growth objective,  we   consider   academic   literature   and   the   views   of   market   participants.   With   respect   to   growth,  the findings from the literature (see Box 2) and survey evidence (see Box 3) are clear that  robust prudential standards are positively associated with growth in the real economy over  the medium to long term.  3.18   A   wide   range   of   factors   influence   the   competitiveness   of   global   financial   centres.   Some  of the   most important factors are   outside the   direct control of   a prudential regulator, such as  the   overall stability of   the   macroeconomic   environment, levels of   human capital, and   the   tax  regime.   Our   approach   is   to   focus   on   factors   where   we   can   exercise   some   control.   Below   we  set out the overall framework through which we pursue the secondary competitiveness and  growth objective.  SCGO   transmission   channels  3.19   We have identified three   main channels through which   we can facilitate the   growth   and  international   competitiveness   of   the   UK   financial   sector   and/or   the real   economy.   These   are:  •   Capital   allocation:   We   can   contribute   to   productivity   in   the   UK   economy   by   facilitating  PRA regulated firms in allocating capital efficiently among financial firms and non -  financial corporates. This capital allocation channel is aligned with the secondary  competition objective given that facilitating effective competition helps efficient capital  allocation in both the insurance and banking sector.  •   Ability   to   sell:   We   can   facilitate   PRA   regulated   firms   in   competing   in   international  markets, and thereby increase their ability to undertake cross - border activities.  •   Ability to attract:   We can facilitate regulated international firms in locating their  headquarters,   subsidiaries   and/or   branches   in   the   UK.   This   supports   investment   in   the  UK.  3.20   We consider that there is both a domestic and international dimension to  competitiveness   and   growth,   and   our   approach   encompasses   both.   The   domestic dimension  relates to efficient capital allocation and the ability to attract investment to the UK. The  international   dimension relates   to   the   UK’s role as a hub for international trading activity,  attracting   firms   and   selling   UK   services   overseas. Both   dimensions   bring   value   to   the   UK  financial sector and the wider UK economy.

Regulatory foundations  3.21   We   focus   on   what   direct   action   we   can   take   to   activate   the   three   transmission   channels.  Our approach is informed by a pilot survey 27   of financial services professionals, and focuses  on strengthening the following three regulatory foundations:  •   Maintaining   trust   among   domestic   and   foreign   firms in   the   PRA   and   UK   prudential  framework;  •   Adopting   effective   regulatory   processes   and   engagement;   and  •   Taking   a   responsive   and   responsibly   open   approach   to   UK   risks   and   opportunities.  Maintaining trust among domestic and foreign firms in the PRA and UK prudential  framework  3.22   The   key   way   that   we   maintain   trust   is   by   maintaining   strong prudential   standards.   Strong  prudential standards preserve the growth prospects of the real economy in the medium to  long term by reducing harm from future financial instabilities, thereby creating trust in the  prudential regime. Strong standards, together with healthy competition in the financial sector,  and consideration of the UK’s long - term output and growth, collectively underpin the success  of the UK as an international financial centre, its competitiveness and the ability of the  financial sector to support the real economy.  3.23   Trust is also maintained through the appropriate design and calibration of standards:  excessively high standards can hamper economic growth by constraining the provision of  financial   services   to   the   real   economy,   and   also   harm   the   trust   and   attractiveness of   the   UK  regulatory framework.  3.24   Because   of   the   interconnected   nature   of   the   global   financial   system   and   the   potential   for  financial   distress   to   spread   across   borders,   there   are   circumstances   where   our   objectives   are  most effectively advanced through the implementation of international standards.  International standards support a globally resilient financial system, and reduce competitive  inequalities between countries, enabling firms to compete on a level playing field.  3.25   As an operationally independent regulator, we are committed to alignment with  international standards, and we support their implementation by our international partners.  Our implementation of international standards builds trust in the UK as a financial centre,  contributes   to   its   competitiveness and   provides   international   regulators   with   assurances   that  their regulated firms can conduct business safely in the UK. Implementation of international  27   The   survey   collected   145   responses   between   18   May   and   30   June   2023.   63%   of   responses   came   from  banks. 16% of responses came from insurance companies. The rest (21%) came from asset managers.  companies, trade unions, academics and civil society. Survey results are publicly available:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/events/2023/september/pilot - survey - secondary -  competitiveness - and - growth - objective .

standards   by   other   jurisdictions   also   enables   UK   firms   to   operate   and   compete  internationally.  3.26   When implementing international standards, we do so in a manner that advances our  objectives, including the new secondary competitiveness and growth objective which  references   alignment   to   international   standards.   We   are   open   to   adjusting   our   implementation  when   guided   by   the   evidence.   Our   approach   to   international   engagement   and   implementation  of international standards is described in more detail in Chapter 4.  Effective   regulatory   processes   and   engagement  3.27   The   operational   costs   of   doing   business   in   a   jurisdiction   affect   the   competitiveness   of   an  economy. Many of these costs are not within our control, but some are. By providing for the  efficient handling of regulatory processes, including authorisations, alongside an effectively  calibrated regulatory framework, we can increase the efficiency and reduce the operating  costs of firms. This involves streamlining procedures and leveraging technology to enhance  effectiveness   –   noting that efficient regulatory processes benefit both regulated entities and  the broader economy by reducing unnecessary burdens and facilitating efficient interactions  between financial institutions and the regulator. Another factor within our control is the data  and information we request as a regulator, and we therefore seek to ensure we collect data  efficiently and proportionately.  3.28   As outlined earlier, secondary objectives only apply when we discharge our general  functions. This does not include firm - specific decisions or actions. While the secondary  objectives   do   not   directly   affect   day - to - day   decisions   of   supervisors,   supervision   teams   do  engage with firms in an open and constructive manner and pass insights and views from  firms related to our secondary objectives on to policy teams.  3.29   An   important   part   of   our   approach   is   facilitating   the   accessibility   of   our   Rulebook.   Having  an accessible and clear Rulebook reduces the resource costs associated with interpreting  and operationalising PRA rules. Our approach to the Rulebook is set out in Chapter 6 of this  document.  Responsive   and   responsibly   open   approach   to   UK   risks   and   opportunities  3.30   We aim to be responsive, and open to risks and opportunities when making policy to  pursue   our objectives.   While the UK   was a   member state   of the EU,   we were constrained   by  the   necessity   of   agreeing   collective   policy   responses   which   were   appropriate   for   the   EU   as   a  whole. We can now make rules that account more effectively for the needs of the UK, using  UK data, and we can respond more quickly to emerging risks and opportunities in the UK  financial sector.  3.31   To   achieve   this,   we   consider   which   tool   would   address   risks   most   effectively   and  proportionately. Rule - making is only one of the options available to us to pursue our

objectives,   alongside   other   tools   such   as   determining   our   approach   to firm   supervision   (see  section on ‘identifying response options’ in Chapter 5 of this document).  3.32   Evidence from a PRA survey 28   indicates that firms are particularly, though not  exclusively, interested in the regulator’s responsiveness and openness to innovation. The  move to a British system of regulation, with rules set out in the Rulebook rather than  legislation,   enables   us   to   respond   more   quickly   to   emerging   risks   and   technologies.   We   can  introduce prudential standards to cover new practices quickly, increasing confidence and  supporting growth in areas of innovation. Moreover, we can use regulatory tools   –   such as  sandbox - like   arrangements   –   to   encourage   innovation   in   a   safe   and   sustainable   way. Such  standards and tools can encourage new firms’ entry into the market and contribute to a  dynamic and innovative business environment.  3.33   We are also open to hosting cross - border business in the UK, provided it is resilient,  appropriately controlled and governed, and   we have sufficient visibility of   and influence over  the   necessary   supervisory   outcomes.   Adopting   a   responsibly   open   approach   attracts   foreign  capital and enhances the UK’s status as a global financial centre. When international firms  compete with domestic firms, effective competition is also enhanced, and the efficiency  improvements can have a positive impact on growth.  3.34   Our   application   of   the   secondary   competitiveness   and   growth   objective   also   rejects   the  idea   of   competitiveness   as   a   zero - sum   game   between   jurisdictions.   Instead,   we   believe   that  we should exploit the complementarities that arise with other jurisdictions and maintain an  open approach internationally, which could further support innovation.  3.35   To   ensure   our   responsiveness   is   focused   and   targeted,   we   engage   our   stakeholders  and seek input on issues such as rule review and innovation.  Box   2:   Literature   on   competitiveness   and   growth  The   available   economic   literature   relevant   to   the secondary   competitiveness   and   growth  objective 29   indicates the following:  •   First, the financial sector can negatively affect economic activity through the  frequency,   scale   and   duration   of   financial   crises.   In   contrast,   stronger   financial  institutions can better support economic activity during stress.  28   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/events/2023/september/pilot - survey -  secondary - competitiveness - and - growth - objective .  29   See   section   3   of   PRA   Background   paper   2:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/events/2023/september/conference - on - the - role - of - financial -  regulation - in - international - competitiveness - and - economic - growth .

•   Second,   better   functioning   financial   systems   can   foster   growth   by   improving  resource allocation and technological change.  •   Third,   the   financial   services   sector   can   also   directly   increase   economic   activity   by  exporting   financial   services   abroad   and   attracting   foreign   capital   to   be   invested   in  the UK economy.  While   there   is   sufficient   evidence   showing   that   robust   prudential   standards   are   positively  associated with economic activity over the medium to long term, it is less clear that the  competitiveness of a global financial centre can be enhanced by weakening prudential  standards.

Box   3:   Survey   evidence   on   what   makes   a   financial   centre   attractive  Along with the academic literature, there is some survey - based evidence on which  factors finance professionals consider important for the attractiveness of a financial  centre. This includes surveys conducted by consultancies, as well as our own survey  which we undertook to inform our approach to the secondary competitiveness and  growth objective. Across external surveys and our own there is clear evidence that  stakeholders   care   about   a   stable   and   predictable   prudential   regulatory   framework   that  can withstan d episodes of financial stress.  A   survey   undertaken   by   a   major   consultancy 30   ranked   the   most   important   factors   as  follows :  •   the   liquidity   of   markets   and   availability   of   capital   (38%);  •   the   level   of   technology   adoption   by   citizens   and   administrations   (35%);   and  •   the   stability   of   political   and   regulatory   regimes   and   safety   of   securing  measures to prevent a major crisis (28%).  Similarly,   our   own   survey   results 31   identified   the   following   three   most   important  factors:  •   stability   and   predictability   of   macroeconomic   environment;  •   high   level   of   human   capital;   and  •   the   prudential   framework.  Regarding   the   prudential   framework,   91%   of   respondents   agreed   that   we   provide   a  stable   and   predictable   regulatory   environment,   and   93%   agreed   that   our   regulatory  framework fosters trust in the firms we regulate.  The   other   attributes   under   the   control   of   the   prudential   regulator   that   are   considered  important are: operational efficiency (eg in assessing requests for regulatory  approvals or authorisation); accessibility of the rulebook (eg making rules less  complex and thus less costly to comply with); and responsiveness to new  developments to support industry innovation efforts. In addition, while stakeholders  value the   ability to   tailor rules to UK circumstances, there is some caution   given the  risk   of   fragmentation   across   jurisdictions   –   which   would   tend   to   increase   compliance  30   See   EY   press   release   (05   June   2023):   https://www.ey.com/en_uk/newsroom/2023/06/uk - remains -  europes - most - attractive - destination - for - financial - services - investment .  31   In   2023,   we   ran   a   pilot   survey   to   gather   feedback   on   the   extent   to   which   our   regulatory   framework   is  advancing the new objective and how we can further facilitate its implementation in the future. The survey  was sent to all invitees to a conference on competitiveness and growth, which we convened on 19  September 2023. Responses were collected between 18 th   May and 30 th   June 2023. The sample size was  145,   across   banks,   insurers   and   others   (building   societies,   academics,   trade   associations,   think   tanks,   asset  managers, industry professional services and advisers).

3.36   Our approach is complementary to the other secondary objective to facilitate effective  competition.   Effective   competition   is   the   key   driver   of   efficient   financial   intermediation,   which  in turn supports growth of the overall economy, especially when it unlocks innovation in the  wider economy, and within the financial services sector. Therefore, effective competition is  instrumental to a vibrant and innovative financial services sector that efficiently serves the  rest of the UK economy. Effective competition can be facilitated by allowing international  firms   to   compete   in   the   UK   via   branches   and   subsidiaries.   However,   for   this   to   be   the   case   it  is important to prevent foreign firms from taking advantage of comparatively lower  requirements to outcompete UK firms.  Approach   to   accountability   on   the   secondary   competitiveness   and   growth  objective  3.37   We are committed to being accountable for our actions to pursue the secondary  competitiveness and growth objective. We therefore provide transparency on how policy  judgements   are   reached,   including   through   detailed   explanations   in   our consultation   papers  (CPs) and CBAs. We also report annually on how we have pursued the secondary  competitiveness and growth objective   –   including both qualitative descriptions and  quantitative metrics.  3.38   This is similar to the approach we adopt to reporting on the secondary competition  objective.   We   consider   the   descriptive   element   to   be   important given   quantitative   metrics  alone cannot fully capture the range of activities we undertake to pursue our secondary  objectives.  3.39   The quantitative metrics we publish are directly linked to the regulatory foundations set  out above and therefore within the PRA’s control. They measure the extent to which we  achieved the outcomes embedded in the foundations. Metrics under the first foundation  (maintain   trust   from   foreign   and   domestic   firms   in   the   PRA   and   the   UK   prudential   framework)  measure the appropriate calibration of, and alignment with, international standards. Metrics  under the second foundation (adopt effective regulatory processes and engagement)  measure our operational efficiency; the accessibility and efficiency of the Rulebook; the  efficiency of our regulatory requests; and the effectiveness of our stakeholder engagement.  Finally, metrics under the third foundation (adopt a responsive and responsibly open  approach to UK risks and opportunities) measure the extent to which we support industry  innovation; our responsiveness; and international openness.  costs   for   internationally   active   firms.   This   potential   trade - off   indicates   that   tailoring  rules to UK circumstances is more suitable to domestic activities.

Approach   to   our   regulatory   principles  3.40   In   pursuing   our   objectives,   we   take   into   account   regulatory   principles (as   broadly   defined  in Chapter 2 of this document) which capture a wider set of public policy considerations that  we must turn our minds to as   we take   decisions. The   list of   our regulatory principles is set   out  in Table 1 (Chapter 2 of this document).  3.41   We review all the regulatory principles, identify which are significant to the proposed  policy and judge the extent to which they should influence the outcome. For each policy  proposal, some regulatory principles are particularly significant, while others less so. We  judge   this   on   a   case - by - case   basis   and   in   the   context   of the   overall   governance   framework.  3.42   In deciding how significant a regulatory principle is to   a particular decision, we consider  several factors. These   include   the impact   of the proposal at   a   market level,   and   on   individual  firms   in   scope   of   the   policy   proposal.   We   use   the   data   and   tools   available   to   us   to   form   these  judgements. Where the regulatory principle is significant to the policy proposal, we seek to  accommodate the consideration as we pursue our objectives.  3.43   Some matters set out in the regulatory principles in Chapter 2 are closely linked to our  objectives.   For   example,   ’innovation’   and   ’trade’   also   relate   to   our   secondary   competitiveness  and   growth objective.   Some considerations   are explicitly captured   as both an objective   and a  regulatory principle(eg competition). In such instances analysis undertaken in consideration  of   the   objective   can   help   us   with   consideration   of   the   regulatory   principle,   though   we   consider  differences of emphasis in the wording accordingly.  3.44   We   cluster   similar   regulatory   principles   for   the   purposes   of   undertaking   and   presenting  analysis (see Table 1 in Chapter 2 of this document). Capturing areas of thematic overlap  supports our internal efficiency and agility as a policy - maker. We recognise and carefully  consider the nuances of the individual regulatory principles. We also recognise that certain  principles will be relevant across more than one thematic cluster.  3.45   We use our judgment when deciding on the most significant regulatory principles and  how   to   approach   the   analysis   and   presentation.   This   is   a   case - by - case   decision,   as   different  regulatory principles may support different policy proposals. This judgement is informed by  our analysis of the available data and wider evidence. We also use our judgement when  considering the appropriate level of detail for undertaking and presenting our analysis.  3.46   In   order   to   support   accountability,   we   provide   transparent   explanations   of   how   regulatory  principles have influenced our policy decisions. An example of our approach can be seen in  the implementation of our remuneration reform in CP16/24. 32  32   CP16/24   –   Remuneration reform:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2024/november/remuneration - reform - consultation - paper .

4:   Our   approach   to   international   engagement  and collaboration  This   chapter   describes   how   we   engage   internationally   and   implement   international   standards.  It explains how the integration of the global financial system benefits the UK while also  creating risks and sets out how we respond to these risks. It also describes the approach we  take to advising HMT on assessments of other jurisdictions’ regulatory frameworks.  4.1   The   UK   is   a   globally   systemic   and   open   financial   centre.   Many   UK   firms   have   operations  overseas,   and   many   firms domiciled   abroad   have operations in   the   UK. The UK   is the fourth  largest insurance market globally. 33   About one fifth of global banking activity takes place in  the   UK, 34   and   the   UK   is   a   host   supervisor   for   a   large   number   of   foreign   financial   firms   as  subsidiaries or branches.  4.2   The UK’s financial services sector and the wider economy benefit from openness.  Openness provides UK firms with opportunities to grow and diversify by accessing  opportunities in markets abroad. Similarly, international firms can promote dynamism and  competition   in   the   UK.   Greater   competition   from   international   firms   can   also   raise   economic  growth in the UK by improving efficiency.  4.3   However, there are risks associated with openness. In open financial systems, distress  can emerge in one jurisdiction and spread across borders, affecting others. This process is  known   as   contagion.   The   consequences   of   contagion   were   illustrated   by   the global   financial  crisis (2007 - 08), which began with problems in local financial markets and then developed  into a crisis of global dimensions. As a large financial centre, the UK is exposed to shocks  affecting the global financial system. Conversely, developments in the UK financial system  can have a significant impact in other jurisdictions. For this reason, the IMF considers UK  financial stability to be a ‘global public good’. 35  4.4   Risks can also arise when international firms gain a competitive advantage over their  peers   through   regulatory   arbitrage   caused   by   different   prudential   requirements   in   their   home  market. This can result in pressure on firms subject to different regulation to compete in an  unsustainable way.  33   See   Executive   Summary   of   the   IMF   Country   Report   No.   22/109   (April   2022):   https://www.imf.org/ -  /media/Files/Publications/CR/2022/English/1GBREA2022010.ashx .  34   See   locational   banking   statistics   on   the   BIS   Data   Portal:   https://data.bis.org/topics/LBS .  35   See the Staff Concluding Statement of the IMF’s 2023 Article IV Mission:  https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2023/05/22/mcs052323 - united - kingdom - staff - concluding -  statement - 2023 - article - iv - mission .

4.5   Therefore, for openness to work well, it must be accompanied by strong regulatory and  supervisory   cooperation   across   jurisdictions.   Consequently,   we   take   a   proactive   approach   to  international engagement. This includes:  •   Exchanging   information   and   sharing   best   practice   with   international   partners   to   inform  research and policy development (as well as supervisory action). In doing so we can  alert one another to risks emerging in the financial system and develop responses to  shared   challenges.   We   are   committed   to   maintaining   an   effective   level   of   international  engagement and co - operation with our international partners.  •   Engaging in the development of international standards. International standards set  minimum regulatory standards to be implemented across jurisdictions with a view to  establishing a globally resilient financial system, and a level playing field for  international firms. A globally resilient financial system reduces the UK’s vulnerability  to international financial shocks. A level playing field supports the competitiveness of  the UK by reducing competitive inequalities that can arise if regulatory standards vary  across   jurisdictions.   Through   the   process   of   repeal   and   replacement   of assimilated   law  in PRA rules, under FSMA 2023 we have assumed wider responsibilities for making  rules in areas covered by international standards. As we discharge these  responsibilities, we consider the context, and the impact on our objectives and  regulatory principles (defined in Chapter 2 of this document).  4.6   We also engage internationally when undertaking assessments of other jurisdictions’  regulatory   frameworks.   This   engagement   involves   assessing   the   regulatory   and   supervisory  frameworks of other jurisdictions to inform decisions by HMT on whether the regulatory  outcomes can be considered equivalent. 36   Where HMT decides to rely on another  jurisdiction's   regulatory   framework,   this   can   facilitate   cross - border   activity   and   may   also   be  reflected in a reduced burden in particular areas of regulation.  Our   international   engagement  4.7   We engage across international institutions and networks and directly with other  jurisdictions. 37   We   adopt   a   collaborative   approach and   attend   relevant   international   meetings  36   For more information, see HMT’s Guidance Document:  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance - document - for - the - uks - equivalence -  framework - for - financial - services .   In   certain   cases,   we   also   assess   another   jurisdiction's   regulatory  framework   for   different   purposes;   for   example,   for   the   purposes   of   authorisation   and   supervision   by   the   PRA  of   subsidiaries   and   branches   of   international   groups. Our   approach   in   this   respect   is   explained   in   SS5/21  ‘International banks: The PRA’s approach to branch and subsidiary supervision’.  37   We   are   not   the   only   UK   authority   that   engages internationally   in   the   field   of   prudential   regulation.   The   Bank  acts internationally in pursuit of financial stability and participates in many of the same international  networks   as   the   PRA. HMT and the   FCA are   also   represented   at   certain   fora, and the Bank and PRA   work  with   them   to   promote   common   objectives.

to   represent   UK   interests.   We   also   look   for   further   opportunities   to   deepen   our   international  engagement where appropriate.  4.8   In banking, the leading international standard - setting authority we engage with is the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The BCBS has a mandate to strengthen  the   regulation,   supervision,   and   practices   of   banks   worldwide   to   enhance   financial   stability. 38  The most recent package of reforms, Basel   III (supplemented through Basel 3.1), was  developed   in   response   to   the   global   financial   crisis   (2007 - 08)   and   has   made   the   global  banking system more resilient. 39  4.9   In insurance, we participate actively in the International Association of Insurance  Supervisors (IAIS), which includes authorities from more than 200 jurisdictions. The IAIS  develops and supports the implementation and assessment of international standards, with  the   aim   of   promoting   effective   and   globally   consistent   supervision   of   the   insurance   industry. 40  Our   work   with   the   IAIS   has   included   the   development   of   Insurance   Core   Principles   (ICPs)   for  all insurers, and the Insurance Capital Standard for internationally active insurance groups.  4.10   We cooperate closely on a bilateral basis with supervisors in other jurisdictions  (including national and supranational agencies such as the European Supervisory  Authorities,   UK   overseas   and   dependent   territories,   and sub - national   jurisdictions   such   as   US  states). We attach great importance to these relationships, which play an important role in  helping us identify risks that require a response. Our supervisory engagement involves  participation in supervisory colleges and establishing co - operation agreements which  facilitate day - to - day supervision.   41   The Bank (including in its capacity as the PRA) currently  has   in   place   just   under   80   supervisory   cooperation   and   information   sharing   Memoranda   of  Understanding (MoUs) with authorities across 55 countries.  4.11   International engagement can support our understanding of emerging risks. This is  particularly important where understanding of the risk is not fully developed, and the  exchange of expertise can enable a more informed response. For example, we engage on  climate   related   matters   across   multiple   fora,   including   the   Sustainable   Insurance   Forum   (SIF)  and the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS).  4.12   Engagement   also   occurs   outside   international   bodies. Senior   PRA   officials   are   proactive  and engage with their counterparts at other central banks and regulatory bodies. These  relationships support cooperation and coordinated international action, which is particularly  important during periods of global distress.  38   See:   https://www.bis.org/bcbs/charter.htm .  39   See:   https://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d544.htm .  40   See:   https://www.iaisweb.org/about - the - iais/what - we - do/ .  41   Supervisory   Colleges   are   an   important   part   of   our   supervisory   approach.   For   information   on   our   approach   to  these, please see our Supervisory Approach documents:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/pras - approach - to - supervision - of - the - banking - and - insurance - sectors .

4.13   We provide input into wider Bank engagement on prudential regulation and financial  stability   matters   at   international   fora   including   at   the   Financial   Stability   Board   (FSB),   BIS   and  the IMF.   We   also coordinate with the FCA   on   shared   international priorities, and we   have   an  MoU in place covering our respective responsibilities at international fora.   42  4.14   Recognising that UK financial stability has implications for countries around the world,  the Bank and PRA work to provide international authorities with information and insight into  how the UK financial system is functioning, and how we regulate and supervise firms. For  example,   both the Bank and   PRA   actively engage with the   IMF to inform its Financial   Sector  Assessment Programme (FSAP)   –   a comprehensive and in - depth periodic analysis of a  country’s financial system. We also engage actively with international standard setters to  facilitate assessments of the implementation and evaluation of internationally agreed  standards(eg through BCBS regulatory consistency assessment programmes and IAIS  implementation   assessment   reviews).   All   these   organisations   have   published   methodologies  on how such assessments are conducted. While the PRA cannot influence the outcome of  these assessments, it has the opportunity to respond to the reports (eg to correct factual  errors and ensure that all relevant factors have been identified).  Our   approach   to   implementing   international   standards  4.15   As a systemically important financial centre with close linkages to other jurisdictions,  there are circumstances where our statutory objectives are most effectively advanced by  developing   international   standards   and   implementing   these   with   our   international   partners. 43  4.16   International   standards   support financial   stability,   and   further   our   statutory   objectives,  by:  •   Establishing   strong   baseline   standards   across   jurisdictions.   This   reduces   the   likelihood  that shocks will emerge abroad and spread to the UK.  •   Creating a level playing field across jurisdictions. A level playing field is one where  firms compete on an equal footing, gaining market share through innovation and  efficiency improvements. A global financial system in which jurisdictions generated  competitive advantages for firms through lower regulatory or supervisory standards  would   ultimately   become   unstable.   This   would   undermine our   statutory   objectives   and  those of other international regulatory authorities.  42   Memorandum of Understanding between The Financial Conduct Authority and The Bank of England:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/memoranda - of - understanding/mou - fca - and -  boe.pdf .  43   Our   engagement   in   the   development   of   international   standards   is   one   of   the   ways   in   which   we   meet   our  cooperation   duty   in   s354B   FSMA.

4.17   Our record of implementing international standards supports the UK’s credibility as a  financial   centre,   providing   assurance   that   international   firms   can   operate   here   under   a   robust  prudential framework.  4.18   As communicated by the Bank in its Financial Stability Strategy, 44   UK financial stability  requires levels of resilience at least as great as those put in place since the global financial  crisis and required by international baseline standards, and in some cases greater.  Recognising   the   importance   of   the   UK   as   a   global   financial   centre,   we   remain   at   the   forefront  of   efforts   to   strengthen   international   standards   where   necessary.  4.19   We are committed to alignment with international standards. We view alignment to  mean   being   at   least   largely   compliant   with   international   standards,   and   we   therefore   target   a  minimum ‘largely compliant’ or ‘largely observed’ rating under assessments of the UK  regulatory framework carried out by international bodies. 45   Under this approach, there is  scope   for   us   to   adjust   our   implementation   of   international   standards   in line   with   our   statutory  objectives, where the evidence supports it.  4.20   FSMA 2023 establishes the basis for more precise adjustments when implementing  international standards in the UK. When the UK was an EU member state, decisions  regarding implementation were made with 27 other member states. The need to harmonise  practice   across   jurisdictions   meant   standards   were   not   always   appropriately   calibrated   for   the  UK. Reforms to the regulatory framework, enacted through FSMA 2023, enable us to  implement standards in a manner that is more appropriate for the UK.  4.21   We   consider   adjustments   in   our   implementation   relative   to   the   international   standard  where market developments mean the standard is not proportionate to the risk; or where  other jurisdictions have implemented standards in a manner that has implications for our  secondary competitiveness and growth objective or regulatory principles; or where the  evidence shows that the standard does not account for the UK’s specific market  circumstances.  4.22   We place great importance on alignment with international standards, in line with our  secondary competitiveness and growth objective. Moreover, we recognise that adjusting  implementation can create challenges for internationally active firms, as operationalising  different requirements across jurisdictions can increase costs. Therefore, adjusting  implementation can   sometimes   be   a   balancing   act   between   tailoring   to   domestic   conditions  and facilitating international business models based in the UK.  44   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/financial - stability/financial - stability - strategy .  45   International bodies such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), the International  Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) conduct  assessments which review the extent to which each member jurisdiction complies with international  standards.   Compliance is   rated   across   a   spectrum   from   ‘Materially   non - compliant’   to   ‘Compliant’,   or   from  ‘Not observed’ to ‘Observed’.

4.23   We take an evidence - based approach when making adjustments, and we consider the  approach taken in other jurisdictions when we develop and update our own policy. We make  decisions about which jurisdictions we compare our approach with on a case - by - case basis.  We   prioritise   comparisons   with   jurisdictions   that   are   comparable   and   that   host   global   financial  centres, as this ensures we maintain strong and consistently implemented international  standards. This strengthens the UK’s international standing, including with other regulators,  and helps retain confidence in the UK as a safe and stable place to do business. However,  we also consider the context of the issue and the relevant geographic market(s) expected to  be affected. This means that jurisdictions with smaller financial centres are relevant in some  circumstances.  4.24   We also   have some   discretion   over which firms to apply international standards   to,   as a  result of our broader rule - making responsibilities. We consider that, in some instances, the  application   of   international   standards   to   non - systemic   domestically   focused   firms   can   impose  high costs without delivering sufficient benefits in respect of our objectives. There are  therefore cases where a more proportionate and risk - sensitive approach is appropriate.  These judgements are made on case - by - case basis, as they depend on the sector and  nature of the regulated activity.  4.25   Our   approach   in   this   respect   is   illustrated   by   our   work   to   develop   a   ‘Strong   and   Simple’ 46  prudential regime for non - systemic banks and building societies.  4.26   We   have   a   range   of   methods   to   implement   international   standards,   spanning   both   policy  and supervisory approaches. We consider which method is appropriate for each aspect of  prudential regulation. In doing so, we endeavour to meet the level of resilience intended by  the relevant international standard.  4.27   We recognise the need for other jurisdictions to adopt their own approach to  implementation,   subject   to   aligning   with   international   minimum   standards.   We   support   efforts  to monitor and assess implementation of minimum standards, and we support engagement  between jurisdictions to discuss implementation and address areas of shared concern.  Our   approach   to   informing   assessments   of   other   jurisdictions’  regulatory   frameworks  4.28   In certain areas, HMT is responsible for determining whether the outcomes of other  jurisdictions’ regulation can be considered equivalent to the UK. We participate in this  process (working closely with the FCA where appropriate) by providing technical information  and   advice   to   support   HMT’s assessments   of   other   jurisdictions’   regulatory   frameworks (ie   its  legislative, regulatory, supervisory and enforcement regime) and other deference - related  46   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/strong - and - simple .

determinations. 47   Deference decisions are the G20 endorsed process by which HMT defers  to   other   jurisdiction’s   standards   when   it   is   justified   by   the   quality   of   their   respective regulatory,  supervisory and enforcement regime.  4.29   Recognition   of   other   jurisdictions’   regulatory   frameworks can   reduce   the   burden   on   firms  by calibrating the treatment of exposures to assets and counterparties in the relevant  jurisdiction   more   appropriately.   This   can   lead   to   deeper   financial   integration   between   mutually  equivalent jurisdictions.  4.30   Given   that   recognition   of   other   jurisdictions’   regulatory   frameworks can   result   in   different  prudential treatment for certain exposures, as well as deeper financial integration, it is  important   that   we assess   the   potential   impact   of any   proposed designation on   our   objectives.  FSMA 2023 also introduced new accountability mechanisms requiring the regulators to  assess whether there would be material risk of incompatibility with relevant deference  decisions or trade obligations when proposing to make rules or changes to certain general  policies and practices.  4.31   We adopt an outcomes - based approach to assessments of another jurisdiction’s  regulatory framework to inform our advice. In general, an outcomes - based approach means  assessing   a   third   country’s regulatory   framework   based   on   whether   it   provides   an   equivalent  outcome to the corresponding UK regulatory framework. The implementation of relevant  international standards by the other jurisdiction is an important consideration in our  assessment.  4.32   Our   outcomes - based   approach   is   proportionate,   and   judgement   based.   We   expect   other  jurisdictions to maintain a prudential and supervisory framework which achieves an outcome  equivalent to the UK’s. However, we recognise that other jurisdictions can use different  methods to achieve equivalent outcomes.  47   See:   https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/memorandum - of - understanding - equivalence - and -  exemptions .

5.   The   policy   cycle  This chapter describes our approach to creating and maintaining our prudential policy  framework, which we refer to as the ‘policy cycle’. We describe how our approach to  policymaking consists of four phases: initiation; development; implementation; and  evaluation.   We   also   describe   our   approach   to   stakeholder   engagement   through   the   cycle.  5.1   We make prudential policy to pursue our objectives. For example, we make policy to  reduce   the   risk   or   impact   of   market   failures, 48   improve   the   effectiveness   of   regulation, 49   or  respond to wider systemic crises.  5.2   Promoting safety and soundness at the level of the individual firm reduces the risk of  firms failing and protects against wider systemic consequences. Our policies form a  framework   of   robust   prudential   standards   that   promote   the   UK’s   financial   stability   (in   line   with  the Bank’s financial stability objective) and support the attractiveness of the UK as a global  financial centre.  5.3   In   this   chapter   we   set   out   how   we   make   policy.   Transparency   and   accountability,  flexibility, and stakeholder engagement are important features of our approach.  Transparency   and   accountability  5.4   We recognise the importance of transparency and explaining our judgements. We share  analysis on policy proposals during consultation to show how they advance our objectives.  We pay close attention to the engagement and challenge we receive via the consultation  process and recognise that providing thoughtful and comprehensive feedback to  consultations requires time and effort on the part of respondents. We read and carefully  consider   all   consultation responses.   We   then   assess   whether   it   is   appropriate   to take   forward  or adjust our policy proposals as a result, before explaining the decisions we have made.  Feedback via consultation can also shape our   internal approach and processes, even where  no external policy change is made.  5.5   Transparency and clear lines of accountability assist parliament in holding us   to account  and support our stakeholders in understanding our proposals and providing feedback. This  Approach   document   also   supports   transparency   on   our   processes   by   providing   stakeholders  with clarity on how we make policy, and how we take feedback into account.  48   Market   failures   might   result   from   issues   with   externalities,   information   asymmetries,   or   market   power.  49   Policymaking   is   inherently   uncertain,   and we   cannot   always   accurately   predict   the   impact   of   its   policy   either  before   implementation   or   when   market   conditions   change   over   time.   Policy   changes   may   be   made where   a  policy is no longer effectively addressing an issue relevant to the pursuit of the PRA’s objectives.

Flexibility  5.6   Having requirements in PRA rules enables us to review all rules relevant to a policy area  holistically, providing us with flexibility to tailor our response. We can respond quickly to  changes   in   the   external   environment   and   reflect   the   characteristics   of   our   regulated   firms   and  the UK financial system. We have the ability to, where appropriate, deploy supervisory  alternatives, instead of making rules. We also have the ability to waive or modify a rule for  individual firms.  Stakeholder   engagement  5.7   We value stakeholders’ engagement in our policy development and rely on them to  provide data to understand the practical implications of our proposals. We engage to  understand the relative   costs and   benefits   of   our proposals   and   to   gain different   perspectives  on our judgements. This provides us with a valuable input to the policymaking process. We  then   come   to   a   decision   which   considers   the   full   range   of   evidence   available   to   us,   and   which  is consistent with our obligations as an independent regulator.  When   we   engage  5.8   We   engage   our   stakeholders   throughout   the   policy   cycle. We   adopt   a   flexible   approach  and consider when and in which form engagement is appropriate, in any given  circumstance. 50  5.9   Engagement   at   the   earlier   stages   of   the   policy   cycle   can   be   valuable   to   our   stakeholders,  particularly regulated firms. From our perspective it can provide insights that inform our  assessments of emerging issues, and our thinking on potential policy options (including  whether a policy response is needed at all). It also helps us to evaluate the different ways to  achieve a policy outcome and clarify the types of data we need from firms.  5.10   Early engagement is more appropriate and feasible in some circumstances than others.  For   example,   we   regularly   engage   external   stakeholders   early   when   we   are   considering   long -  term risks and gathering input to inform our horizon scanning work, or where the broad  parameters of the policy area are already clear. Our speeches and discussion papers (DP)  also facilitate early engagement and provide stakeholders with insight into how we are  considering an emerging risk or policy issue.  5.11   A key mechanism through which we gather external stakeholder feedback at an early  stage in the policy cycle is via the PRA Practitioner Panel and the Insurance Practitioner  Pane l 51   (‘the   Practitioner   Panels’;   see   further   information   under   ‘Who   we   engage,   see   pages  35 - 36).   As   Practitioner   Panel   members   have   signed   declarations   of   secrecy,   we   are   able   to  50   Although   we   have   flexibility to   tailor   our   engagement,   there   are   statutory   requirements,   and   in   some   cases  public law obligations relating to consultation and the development of policy   -   which we abide by.  51   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/pra - practitioner - panel .

share confidential details with them prior to consultation. We recognise that Practitioner  Panel members may be able to contribute more effectively on certain policy proposals by  drawing on wider expertise within their organisations. We therefore facilitate information -  sharing   between   Practitioner   Panel   members   and   their   organisations where   appropriate   and  legally permitted.  5.12   Broader early engagement on specific policy proposals, pre - consultation, is not  generally possible as we cannot confer an advantage to any market participants or expose  market sensitive information. Therefore, the consultation process is the primary mechanism  through which stakeholders inform our approach. We welcome alternative viewpoints which  challenge the proposals we put forward, particularly where evidence and data is provided in  support of stakeholders’ assertions. We typically invite interested parties to respond to our  consultations within three months. In some cases we extend these consultation periods, for  example   when   the   policy   under   consultation   is   particularly   complex   or   operationally   impactful.  There are, circumstances where extending the consultation period is more challenging, such  as when we have to meet international deadlines.  5.13   Stakeholder engagement is also an important component of the evaluation phase of  policymaking. Stakeholders can inform our rule reviews by sharing views and evidence on  policies   that   may   not   be   working   as   intended.   We   draw   on   direct   feedback   from   stakeholders,  feedback from relevant panels such as our Practitioner Panels, supervisory intelligence, and  a range of other factors (described in the evaluation phase section below)  5.14   When considering the timing of our engagement, we are mindful of resource availability  and   efficiency.   Investing   in   engagement   early   in   the   policy   process   can   make   the   later   stages  of the process more efficient. However, in some circumstances, particularly where there is a  need to act urgently, we may judge that our efficiency would be negatively impacted by  engaging early in the process. There may also be cases where we judge that no prior  engagement is possible or needed; for example, where we need to act urgently or on a  market sensitive issue, or where the issues under consideration are already well understood  and have been subject to significant public debate.  Who   we   engage  5.15   It is important that we hear views from a wide range of stakeholders, and from a cross -  section   of   society.   This   ensures   we   have   a   diversity   of   viewpoints   to   consider   as   we   formulate  policy.  5.16   We engage regulated firms, and we aim to gather input from firms of various sizes.  Alongside regulated firms, we are especially interested in contributions from voluntary,  community or social enterprise organisations and other civil society groups. These groups  can find it challenging to engage with our policymaking given resource constraints. We  therefore   intend   to   proactively   engage   these   groups where   appropriate,   including   by   inviting  them to relevant events.

5.17   We also engage with sector specific specialists such as trade bodies, think - tanks,  investor   groups,   law   firms,   consultancies,   analysts,   and   credit   ratings   agencies.   Such   groups  often   have   specialist   expertise   on   specific   topics and   can   provide   valuable   insights   and   data.  5.18   As we refine our policy proposals we also typically engage with HMT and the FCA to  solicit their feedback. To assist Parliament in holding us to account, senior PRA and Bank  staff   appear   before   parliamentary   committees   to   give   evidence.   We   notify   the   Treasury   Select  Committee, the Financial Services Regulation   Committee,   and   any   appropriate Lords or Joint  Committee, when we publish a consultation. We also respond in writing when parliamentary  committees provide formal responses to our consultations.  5.19   We coordinate the Practitioner Panels, 52   which are made up of industry  representatives. 53   We view the Practitioner Panels as a helpful source of intelligence and  seek their feedback to help us make policy that advances our statutory objectives. We are  required to declare in our CPs if we have consulted the Practitioner Panels during the policy  development process. The Practitioner Panels publish Annual Reports covering the items  they   have   considered   over   the   year.   These   reports   include   a   summary   of   key   examples   of   the  policy   issues   on   which   the   Practitioner   Panels   were   consulted   and   the   nature   of   the   views  provided   by   the   Practitioner   Panels.  How   we   engage  5.20   We have a range of methods of engagement to choose from. These include  roundtables, DPs, webinars, speeches, standing committees, and conferences. We consider  which   form   of   engagement   is   appropriate   in   the relevant   circumstance.   When   deciding   how   to  proceed, we consider factors such as resource constraints (within the PRA and its  stakeholders),   timelines,   and   the   complexity   and   scope   of   the   policy   area.   For   example,   when  we initiated far - reaching and technical reforms through our ‘Strong and Simple’ 54   initiative, a  DP   was   an   effective   method   of   gathering   stakeholder   input   to   inform   our   approach.   In   other  cases,   for   example   when   implementing   the   Solvency   UK   reforms   on   matching   adjustments,  we have decided to engage with industry via subject expert groups.  5.21   Many   groups, particularly those who   may face resource   constraints,   benefit when we  provide information in an accessible way. We therefore consider the best channels and  formats   for   engagement   and   identify   the   most   suitable   options   on   a   case - by - case   basis.   In  addition to DPs, we can use shorter papers, or convene roundtables to gather input more  52   As   required   by   section   2L   of   FSMA   2000.  53   We   have   published   a   Statement   of   Policy   on   the   process   for   appointing   members   to   the   Practitioner   Panels  and the matters we consider during the appointment process (October 2023):  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential - regulation/approach/panel -  appointments - sop.pdf .  54   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/strong - and - simple .

Diagram   1:   Overview   of   the   Policy   Cycle  quickly   and   flexibly.   We   prioritise   providing   information   in   the   simplest   way   possible,   with   a  view to enhancing ease of understanding, particularly among non - subject matter experts.  Overview   of   the   policy   cycle  5.22   Our   approach   to   policymaking   consists   of   four   phases:  •   Initiation:   identifying   and   monitoring   risks   and   opportunities,   assessing   whether   taking  action would further our objectives, and if so, considering the appropriate type of  response;  •   Development:   developing   policy   proposals   based   on   the   available   evidence;  •   Implementation:   inaugurating   and   embedding   the   new   policy;   and  •   Evaluation:   assessing   whether   the   policy   has   achieved   its   objectives   and,   as   a   result,  whether revisions or enhancements should be made.  5.23   We   combine   evidence   and   judgement   to   make   policy   that   advances   our   objectives.   We  collaborate across our policymaking and supervisory functions and work closely with the  Bank’s financial stability and resolution functions.  5.24   We consider whether it is appropriate for us to intervene on a given issue before acting.  We consider evidence, insights from our experience, and we apply our judgement. We also  consider the accountability framework set by Parliament, including whether a response  advances   our   objectives   and   supports   the   Bank’s   financial   stability   objective.   These   elements  provide a holistic overview of the case for and against intervention. The balance between  inputs will vary depending on the nature of the risk. In some cases, we may rely on our

judgement   more   heavily   where   there   are   information gaps,   and   we   need   to   intervene   to  advance our objectives.  5.25   If we   conclude   that intervention is necessary, we have   a range   of possible responses,  including   policy   and   supervisory   responses.   Flexibility   regarding   the   response   type   enables  us to be timely and proportionate in how we act.  5.26   We   aim   to   establish   and   maintain   policy   material   that   is   consistent   with   our   objectives,  clear in intent, straightforward in presentation and as concise as possible. Our policy  framework aims to set out what outcomes we expect, so that firms can meet these  expectations.  5.27   The policy cycle provides an overarching methodology for how we make policy. To  pursue our objectives, we take an agile, pragmatic and proportionate approach to  policymaking. Our approach varies on a case - by - case basis, reflecting the nature of the risk  and its urgency. This ensures that we can respond rapidly and effectively to emerging risks.  For   example,   the   need   to   act   quickly   in   times   of   crisis   may   require   us   to   expedite   some   steps  of our policymaking process. The remainder of this chapter explores the four phases of our  approach in more detail.  Phase   1:   initiation  Overview  5.28   Initiation   is   the   first   step   in   our   policymaking   approach.   We   identify   potential   reasons   to  act, consider possible responses, and conduct an initial assessment of the case for and  against intervention. This phase does not always conclude with further policy development.  5.29   When   we   identify   a   potential   cause   for   action,   we   undertake an   initial   assessment   to  understand the nature of the issue, and the likelihood and severity of any impact on our  objectives. We also consider the international context and the existence of relevant  international standards. We   use   these   outputs   to identify   the   ways we could respond   and  assess the case for intervening.  When   might   we   act?  5.30   We   aim   to   monitor   a   wide   range   of   sources   to   identify   where   we   might   need   to   act   (see  Table 2 below for examples). There is a high degree of interconnectedness between the  sources.  Table   2   –   examples   of   where   we   may   need   to   act

Source   (not   ranked)   Why   might   we need   to   act?   Example  Supervisory   input   Our supervisory function may  identify an emerging risk through  interactions with firms or receive  reports   from   firms   of   a   developing  issue.  Our Supervisory Statement  on   ‘New   and   Growing   Banks’  (SS3/21). 55  Our Supervisory Statement  on cyber insurance  underwriting   risk   (SS4/17). 56  Evaluation   of   existing  policy  We may identify an issue with  current regulation, which requires  intervention   or   amendment   to   make  the policy more effective or less  burdensome.  Our   refinements   to   the   Pillar  2A capital framework  (PS22/17). 57  Horizon   scanning   We carry out horizon scanning to  identify new and emerging risks.  When   these   could   impact   firms   and  our objectives, we might intervene.  Our expectations on risk  weight   floors   for   residential  mortgages. 58  Research   We conduct an ongoing program of  research which may identify risks  that   needs   addressing   or   aspects   of  policy which may not be effective.  Staff Working Paper No.  922 59   ‘Measure   for   Measure:  evidence on the relative  performance   of   regulatory  requirements   for   small   and  large   banks’   influenced   our  publications on the future  ‘Strong and Simple ’ 60  framework.  55   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/april/new - and - growing -  banks - ss.  56   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential - regulation/supervisory -  statement/2017/ss417.  57   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential - regulation/policy -  statement/2017/ps2217.pdf .  58   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/internal - ratings - based - uk -  mortgage - risk - weights - managing - deficiencies - in - model - risk - capture.  59   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/working - paper/2021/measure - for - measure - evidence - on - the -  relative - performance - of - regulatory - requirements.  60   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/april/strong - and - simple -  framework - banks.

Source   (not   ranked)   Why   might   we need   to   act?   Example  Significant   events   We may need to respond to rapid  changes in market conditions  caused by low - probability high -  impact   events   to   protect   safety   and  soundness or avoid significant  adverse effects.  Our   response   to   the   Covid -  19 pandemic.  International  standards  We implement international  standards   to   pursue   our   objectives,  as set out in Chapter 4.  Our   implementation   of   Basel  III International Standards  (PS22/21). 61  UK   legislation   We   may   take   action   in   pursuit   of   the  goals of legislation made by  parliament.  Our implementation of bank  ‘Ring Fencing’ legislation 62  (introduced   via   the   Financial  Services (Banking Reform)  Act   2013) 63 .  Direction   from   HMT  under the new rule  review power  We may need to act under  directions   received   from   HMT   to  review specific rules.  N/A   (not   yet   exercised).  Recommendation or  direction   given   by   the  Financial Policy  Committee (FPC)  The FPC may suggest or direct  (where   there   is   a   macro - prudential  tool) us to intervene to address a  risk they have identified.  Our   implementation   of   the  FPC’s 2016  recommendation   to   exclude  certain exposures from the  leverage ratio. 64  61   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/october/implementation - of -  basel - standards.  62   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/the - implementation - of - ring -  fencing - prudential - requirements - intragroup - arrangements.  63   https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/33/contents/enacted.  64   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/pra - statement - on - the -  leverage - ratio.

Initial   analysis  5.31   Where we identify a potential need to intervene, we undertake initial analysis,  proportionate   to   the   complexity   and   urgency   of   the   issue.   We   also   consider   any   possible  implications for relevant deference arrangements and trade obligations. 65  5.32   Our analysis is supported by data. We collect different data for different purposes. We  request data to support policy development, so that we can assess the evidence that  changes will advance our objectives; assess costs and benefits; and design policy in a  manner   that   accounts   appropriately   for   UK   circumstances. We   also   collect   supervisory   data,  which helps us understand how firms have implemented policies. These data enable us to  review the practical impact of polices, including identifying unintended consequences.  5.33   Data can be qualitative   –   for example, information gained via interaction with external  stakeholders;   or   data   can   be   quantitative   –   for   example,   firms’   regulatory   reporting.   We   have  internal processes which support a consistent approach to the analysis of data and  interpretation of results. These processes aim to make sure our data is as relevant and  reliable as possible; that our analysis is well - documented; and that our results are correctly  interpreted and clearly communicated.  5.34   The   data   we   request   from   firms   to   support   policy   development   facilitates   responsive   and  dynamic policymaking. It is also necessary for us to meet our accountability requirements.  For example, we need data to consider the implications for our secondary competitiveness  and growth objective. We also need data to carry out CBA effectively, and to ensure our  policies account appropriately for UK circumstances. Ad - hoc data requests are sometimes  necessary. However, before making such requests, we first consider whether the data we  already have available to us is sufficient.  5.35   We recognise the importance of clearly communicating the purposes for which we are  collecting data. Where circumstance allows, we provide the context to our request so that  firms can understand what our request is intended to achieve. This can help firms address  the request more efficiently. We also recognise the importance of proportionality and  eliminating   duplicative   data   requests.   We   are   committed   to   streamlining regulatory   reporting  across   insurance   and   banking,   and   to   ensuring   data   requests   are   appropriately   calibrated   to  firm size and complexity.  5.36   Stakeholder   planning   is   also   facilitated   by   the Regulatory   Initiatives   Grid,   which   provides  information on implementation timelines and forthcoming consultations, thereby enabling  firms to understand, and plan for, the timing of the initiatives that may have a significant  operational impact on them.  65   Once   we   have   our   policy   proposal   (at   the   ‘development’   stage)   we   will   notify   HMT of   any material   impacts   or  risks we had identified for relevant overseas deference arrangements and trade agreements.

Identifying   response   options  5.37   Our   next   step   is   to   identify   one   or   more   possible   response   options.   As   set   out   in  Diagram 2, we have a variety of types of response at our disposal.  5.38   The nature of the issue (including the number of firms it affects) will determine which  type(s) of response are suitable. In each case we consider the most appropriate types of  response in pursuit of our objectives. A supervisory response may be more appropriate  where   the   issue   affects   a   smaller   number   of   firms. We   may   also   consider   whether   to   issue   a  letter to senior executives of firms, to set out our views on specific supervision or policy  focused   issues.   A   policy   response   may   be   more   appropriate   when   the   issue   is   more   broadly  applicable, and where enforceable requirements would deliver our aims most effectively. 66  5.39   We   aim   to   conduct   an   initial   assessment   of   the   impact   of   each   response   option,  proportionate to the scale of the potential intervention, and the relevant issue.  Diagram   2   –   the   spectrum   of   response   types  5.40   Where   there   are   different   options,   we   consider   the   likely   impacts   of   each option   and  weigh up their ‘pros’ and ‘cons’ for our objectives and regulatory principles (defined in  Chapter 2 of this document).  66   For proposals that are rules that would apply to both mutual societies (including friendly societies and  building societies), and other types of authorised firms, we must also prepare and publish a statement for  the   relevant   CP   on   whether   we   consider   that   the   impact   on   mutuals   is   significantly   different   to   the   impact   on  other   authorised   firms,   and   if   so,   give   details.   If   the   final   rules   differ   from   the   proposed   rules,   we   must   also  prepare and publish a statement in the PS on whether we consider the impact of the final rules is  significantly   different   from   that   of   the   proposed   rules   on   mutuals   and   on   mutuals   compared   with   other   firms.  If so, we must give details.

Decision   on   next   steps  5.41   We   consider   whether   the   evidence,   and   our   confidence   in   our   judgement,   is   sufficient   to  justify action. We also consider the potential for the market to ‘self - correct’. Through this, we  determine whether we should intervene and, if so, which type of response we should use.  5.42   When deciding whether to address specific risks or opportunities, we must prioritise  effectively. This means placing a higher priority on action that addresses the most material  risks   to   our   objectives.   We   welcome   external   input   regarding   the   risks   we   prioritise.   HMT   can  direct us to make rules in certain areas. Exercise of this power by HMT would require us to  re - prioritise other risks accordingly.  Phase   2:   development  Overview  5.43   The   Development   Phase   starts   once   we   determine   that   we   need   to   act,   and   that   a   policy  response is appropriate.  5.44   We develop a policy proposal by analysing options for new policy. We assess how  different options advance our statutory objectives and we have regard to the regulatory  principles described in Chapter 2. Our policy and supervisory functions work together to  understand the impact   of different   options   on   firms and their   business models. Insights from  the   Bank’s   financial   stability   function   allow   us   to   understand   the   potential   broader,   economic  effects of a policy. Where appropriate, we consider approaches developed by other  jurisdictions to address similar issues. Ultimately, we produce a refined policy proposal,  which delivers what we judge to be the best mechanism for addressing the issue, while  advancing our objectives.  5.45   We   consult   on   our   policy   proposals   via   a   CP   and   consider   all   responses   before   finalising  our policy. Diagram 3 illustrates the stages within the development phase.

Diagram   3   -   Stages   within   the   Development   Phase 67  Policy   option   design  5.46   We start the development phase by examining the policy options in detail. We set out  one   or   more   initial   policy   approaches,   and   articulate   their   aims,   scope   and mechanisms.   In   all  cases we prioritise how we can most appropriately pursue our objectives. We also consider  the impact of the proposal on our regulatory principles.  5.47   Once we have described our initial policy approach(es), we analyse and refine these.  The   nature   of   the   respective   risk   or   opportunity   will   shape   this   process.   Where   we   need   to   act  urgently to meet our objectives, we might expedite some of these steps.  Cost   benefit   analysis   approach  5.48   FSMA   requires   us   to   undertake   CBA   when   proposing   to   make   PRA   rules. We   consider  that undertaking CBA can also be beneficial in other cases, for example when proposing  guidance in supervisory statements. We have published a statement of policy setting out in  detail how we approach CBA. 68  5.49   FSMA   also   requires   that   we   establish   and   maintain   a   CBA   Panel,   comprised   of   external  members, to provide advice to the PRA in relation to CBA. The CBA Panel brings  considerable experience and knowledge of CBA, prudential regulation, and the financial  services sector. The CBA Panel’s terms of reference and membership can be found on the  Bank of England website. 69  5.50   CBA   is   an   integral   part   of   good   policymaking   and   fulfils   three   important   functions   in   our  policymaking.  67   This   does   not   include   the   publication   of   a possible   discussion   paper,   which   would come   before   the   stages  outlined here.  68   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/december/pra -  approach - to - cost - benefit - analysis - statement - of - policy .  69   See:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential - regulation/cost - benefit - analysis -  panel - tor .

•   CBAs   represent   our   best   judgement,   drawing   on   the   available   evidence,   of   the   net  impacts that we expect our policies to have.  •   As   part   of   policy   development,   consideration   of   economic   costs   and   benefits   shapes  the design and calibration of the policies we make.  •   CBA enhances transparency and scrutiny of our policymaking by providing a  structured   way   for   us   to   communicate   the   type   and   scale   of   the   costs   and   the   benefits  that our policies are expected to generate.  5.51   We prepare CBA in an iterative manner as part of our policymaking process. We  consider evidence and undertake partial analysis of costs and benefits throughout the policy  cycle. We consider the merits and drawbacks of different policy approaches throughout the  initiation   and   development   phases   of   the   policy   cycle.   Ultimately,   we   produce   a   refined   policy  proposal, which delivers what we judge to be the best mechanism for addressing the issue  identified, while pursuing our objectives. We prepare a full CBA on our refined policy  proposal, 70   drawing   together   the   evidence gathered,   and   the   analysis   undertaken   throughout  the   policymaking   process.  5.52   The   PRA   takes   a   proportionate   approach   to   the   use   of   CBA   in   its   policymaking   process  and   makes judgements about whether a CBA is required and, if   so,   whether it is reasonable  to estimate the expected costs and benefits of a policy proposal. FSMA requires us to have  regard to the efficient and economic use of our resources, and this informs our approach to  CBAs. There is a cost to undertaking CBA both to the PRA and to the firms we regulate,  whom we may rely on to provide certain data and evidence to help us understand the  potential economic costs and benefits of our policies.  Cooperation   between   policy   and   supervisory   functions  5.53   Our   policy   and   supervisory   functions   work   closely   together   throughout   the   policymaking  process.   Supervisory   input   assists   in   scoping   the   CBA,   applying   specialist   firm knowledge   to  identify areas that the CBA should explore, and sourcing key data.  5.54   Our supervisory function provides important input into policy development, which  strengthens the analysis and identifies areas for further work. Supervisors can identify  potential   thematic   issues   across   firms.   Our   supervisory   and   policymaking   functions   also   work  together when applying policies to subsidiaries and branches of international firms. Our  supervisory function also provides insight into the feasibility, complexity and cost of  implementation.  70   Policy   proposal   in   this   context   refers   to   PRA   rule   making   for public   consultation   under   section   138J(1)(b)   of  FSMA ( https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2000/8/section/138J ).

Internal   governance  5.55   We then take our policy recommendations through our internal governance. We  summarise   the   issue   we   have   identified,   describe   our   policy   proposals,   and   explain   how   they  assist us in pursuing our primary and secondary objectives, and the likely consequences of  inaction. We present the results of the CBA, and regulatory principles analysis, and outline  how we arrived at the proposed policy design. We highlight any trade - offs we have made,  particularly in relation to regulatory principles requirements.  5.56   The relevant internal committee(s), culminating in the PRC for the most material  decisions,   weigh   up   the   arguments   before   taking   a   decision.   This   may   be   to   proceed   with   the  policy proposal as presented or to conduct further analysis, before returning with a new  proposal.   PRC   is   responsible   for   finally   agreeing   any   PRA   rules   and   ensuring   that   the   overall  impact of any proposal sits within our risk appetite. Where appropriate, we also take  proposals to the Financial Policy Committee (FPC).  Phase   3:   implementation  Overview  5.57   The implementation phase starts when we publish our final policy documents, which  explain the final policy and any changes from the initial proposal. We give feedback on  responses   within   scope   of   the   consultation   and   explain   where   and   why   we   have,   or   have   not,  made changes.  Final   policy  5.58   Once we have finalised our approach, we publish a policy statement. Where  appropriate,   this   is   accompanied   by   final   rule(s),   supervisory   statement(s),   or   statements   of  policy. 71   These documents contain the final policy and explain our approach to addressing  responses, including if the proposals have changed since consultation. Our supervisory  function, supported by our policy function, works with firms to ensure the policy is  implemented effectively.  5.59   As   our   supervisory   function   is   closely   involved   in   the initiation   and development   phases,  we   aim   for   the   final   policy   to   reflect   any   practical   implementation   challenges.   However,   we   do  not generally expect firms to comply instantly with new requirements, especially where there  may be complex and/or costly implementation requirements. Where appropriate, we include  a transitional period before a policy comes into force and/or an implementation timeline, with  milestones   for   firms   to   meet   ahead   of   the   final   implementation. 72   In   other   cases   (for   example,  71   New   Policy   or   Supervisory   Statements   are   published   on   the   Bank   of   England   website:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/news/prudential - regulation.  72   For   example,   for   firms   in   scope   of   April   2016:   CRD   IV:   Liquidity   |   Bank   of   England PS   Liquidity   Coverage  Ratio requirements were gradually increased in 10 p.p. increments between 2015 and 2018:  http s://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2014/crd - iv - liquidity.

where   requirements   are   being   removed)   we   consider   how   to   ensure   the   changes   can   apply  to firms as quickly as possible.  5.60   Firms   are   responsible   for   effectively   implementing   policy   by   the   ‘coming   into   force’   date.  Our supervisory function engages with firms   throughout the implementation   period   to   assess  whether firms are   on   track. This   may include,   where appropriate and   proportionate, requests  for firms to provide updates at certain points ahead of the policy implementation date.  5.61   After the implementation date, our supervisory function may assess how firms have  implemented   the   policy (as   set   out   in our   supervisory   approach). 73   This   may   involve   one   or  more of the following: regular meetings with the appropriate business areas and risk  functions at supervised firms, deep dives on specific topics, review of regulatory data, and  peer   analysis   across   firms.   Assessments   of   a   firm’s   implementation   of   policy   areas   may   be  fed back to the firm, especially where   the firm is judged to be at the   weaker end of its peer  group.  5.62   Every firm we supervise is subject to a regular internal review, and this is then the  subject   of   formal   communication   to   the   firm’s   senior   management.   Where   relevant,   some   of  this feedback may concern policy implementation. Where similar policies have been  implemented in other jurisdictions, our supervisory function may also engage with other  regulators, to compare experiences and outcomes. This engagement can help understand  how successfully the new policy has been embedded, and the impact on firms.  Phase   4:   evaluation  Overview  5.63   In the evaluation (or ‘rule review’) phase, we assess the impact of the implemented  policy. This includes considering whether the policy has been successful in meeting its  intended outcomes, whether it is still relevant and required, and if it has produced any  unintended consequences. We assess policies objectively and look actively for areas for  improvements   or   clarifications.   We   have   set   out   our   approach   in   more   detail   in   our   statement  on the review of rules. 74  Evaluation   process  5.64   We use evaluation to assess whether our policies are operating effectively and are  delivering   their   intended   impact.   Evaluation   can   improve   existing   policies   and   inform   future  policy development in new areas.  73   Available on our approach to supervision of the banking and insurance sectors webpage:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/pras - approach - to - supervision - of -  the - banking - and - insurance - sectors .  74   PRA   Policy   Statement   4/24:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2024/february/pra - statement - on - the - review - of - rules - policy - statement .

5.65   Rules may be revised if they have not adequately addressed the risk for which they  were   designed,   or   new   information   emerges   to   inform   their   calibration; they   have   given   rise   to  unintended consequences; firms are arbitraging or avoiding the rules in unanticipated ways;  the structure of the economy or financial system has evolved; international standards  affecting the rule have changed; or the nature of the issue addressed by the rules has  evolved.  5.66   Evaluation can result in major policy changes or minor adjustments that refine the  policy,   depending   on   the   result   of   our   evaluation.   We   monitor   the   implementation   of   policy   on  an ongoing basis and make minor adjustments and updates when appropriate.  5.67   As described earlier, stakeholder engagement is an important input to the evaluation  phase.   We   value   the   views   and   evidence   which   stakeholders   provide   on   policies   that   may   not  be working as intended. 75   Alongside direct feedback from external stakeholders, we also  consider feedback from the PRA‘s statutory panels; supervisory intelligence; changes in  market and economic conditions; material developments in international standards; insights  and   trends   in   applications   for   permissions; waivers   or   modifications   of   PRA   rules; and   reports  on specific firms and thematic reviews. We also consider other evidence such as external  academic research.  5.68   We decide to conduct an evaluation for various reasons, including that: it appears that  policies have not adequately addressed the risk for which they were designed or new  information emerges to inform the calibration of the policies compared to the risk they  address; the policies have given rise to unintended consequences; firms are implementing  the policies in unanticipated ways, leading to a failure to achieve the intended policy  outcome;   the   structure   of   the   economy   or   financial   system   has   evolved; relevant   international  standards affecting the policy have changed; or the nature of the issue addressed by the  policies has evolved. We prioritise reviews based on several criteria including legal  requirements; scale of impact; timing; contribution to meeting the PRA’s objectives;  implications for the effectiveness of PRA rule - making; the evidence base; and other  considerations. We aim to strike a balance that allows us to pursue our objectives most  effectively by weighing up the benefits of reviewing current policies and those of identifying  and addressing new policy issues.  5.69   HMT   can   direct   us   to   review specific   rules   where   the   government considers   that   it   is   in  public interest. We therefore consider any directions from HMT alongside the approach to  evaluation above.  5.70   Once we select a   policy for evaluation we compare the intended impact of the policy  intervention with the result. We consider whether the policy is effectively advancing our  objectives,   and   then   whether   it   is   having   the   expected   impact   on   our   regulatory   principles.  75   CP11/23   set   out   proposals   to   facilitate   stakeholder   engagement   during   the   evaluation   phase.

5.71   If we identify an issue with existing policy, we may decide to return to the initiation  phase.   We   engage   closely   with   our   supervisory   function   to   understand   the   issues,   and   the  impact and practicalities of implementing further policy changes in the relevant area.  5.72   In addition, the Bank and PRA contributes to and supports reviews of international  standards, coordinated by international bodies, such as the BCBS, IAIS and FSB. This  supports   our   work   to   shape   effective   international standards   and   builds   close   relationships  with our regulatory counterparts.

6.   Delivering   a   first - rate   PRA   Rulebook  This chapter outlines our approach to the PRA Rulebook. 76   We explain that our guiding  principles   for   the   Rulebook   are   for   it   to   be easy   to   access,   efficient,   usable,   and   as   clear   as  possible.   The   approach   described   will   take   time   to   embed   and   is   subject   to   decisions   taken  by   HMT   regarding   the   repeal   and   replacement   of   relevant   assimilated   law.  Principles  6.1   Our   approach   to   the   Rulebook   is   guided   by   the   following   principles:  •   Ease   of   access   –   setting   out   our   Rulebook   in   an   intuitive   way   and   ensuring   that  relevant links are presented with the related material.  •   Efficiency   –   streamlining   the   policy   document   formats   used.  •   Usability   and   clarity   –   using   consistent,   clear   and   inclusive   terminology   in   our  policies, and writing in plain English.  Context  6.2   Following   the   UK’s   exit   from   the   EU,   EU   law   moved   on   to   the   UK   statute   book. 77   Having  these rules in statute rather than PRA rules means that regulatory material on prudential  regulation is fragmented across a range of different sources, which can be difficult to follow  (as illustrated in Table 3).  6.3   The mixture of UK and EU regulatory material can be confusing for PRA stakeholders.  For   example,   EU - derived   legislation   uses   different   styles   and   structures   to   the   UK   regulatory  framework, and different terminology is sometimes used to refer to the same concepts.  76   By   ‘Rulebook’   we   mean   all   relevant   policy   material   that   we   expect   firms   to   engage   with,   including   rules   in   the  Rulebook, Supervisory Statements and EU materials (see Table 3).  77   The   body   of   EU   legislation   that   applied   directly   in   the   UK   was   transposed   into   the   UK   statute   book   through  the   European   Union   (Withdrawal)   Act   2018. This,   together   with   UK   legislation   that   has   implemented   EU   law,  is referred to as ‘assimilated law’ and covers a wide range of legislative areas.

Table   3   -   Current   sources   of   regulatory   material  Source   Location   and   status  UK   legislation   Includes primary legislation, statutory instruments and  assimilated   law;   available   on   the   UK   legislation   website. 78  PRA   rules   Available   on   the   PRA   Rulebook   website . 79  UK   Technical   Standards   Originally   drafted   by   European   Supervisory   Authorities   (ESAs).  The onshored text is available on the UK legislation website ; 80  PRA amending instruments on the Bank’s website . 81  PRA supervisory  statements and  statements   of   policy  Available   on   the   Bank’s   website . 82  Guidelines,  recommendations   and  Q&As  Originally drafted by European Supervisory Agencies (ESAs).  While   no   longer   applicable   in   the   UK,   firms   should   ‘make   every  effort to comply’ with existing Guidelines and  Recommendations 83   that were applicable as at the end of the  transition period, to the extent that these remain relevant. A  Bank   and   PRA   Statement   of   Policy   provides   a   non - exhaustive  list of guidelines. Q&As ‘may continue to be relevant, and the  Bank and PRA may have regard to these as appropriate.’  Our   approach  6.4   The   repeal   of   assimilated   law   and   its   replacement   by   relevant   regulatory material   in   PRA  rules:  •   allows   us   to   review   and   amend the   style,   structure   and   content   of   our   rules;  •   enables   us   to   make   policy   in   a   more   responsive   way,   in   line   with   the   principles   outlined  in paragraph 6.1;  •   facilitates   the   evolution   of   the   Rulebook;  •   allows   the   Rulebook   to   be   more   responsive   to   emerging   risks;   and  78   https://www.legislation.gov.uk  79   https://www.prarulebook.co.uk  80   https://www.legislation.gov.uk  81   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/policy  82   ibid  83   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/interpretation - of - eu - guidelines - and - recommendations -  boe - and - pra - approach - sop

•   advances   our   objective   of   promoting   the   safety   and   soundness   of   the   firms   we  regulate by making our materials easier to follow.  Presenting   our   Rulebook   on   an   easy - to - use   website  6.5   We   have refreshed   the   PRA   Rulebook   website 84   to   give   us   more   flexibility   to   update   our  regulatory material.  6.6   Better   functionality   makes   our   Rulebook   easier   for   stakeholders   to   navigate.   This   includes  digitising regulatory policy material such as supervisory statements and statements of policy,  and bringing links to related policy material together to provide easy access to relevant  source materials as is currently provided in the Prudential and Resolution Policy Index 85  (‘index’).   Users   can   access   those   links   in   the   Index   until   they   are delivered   though   the  Rulebook itself.  6.7   The refreshed PRA Rulebook website allows users to search both rules and guidance in  one   place,   with   a   filter   to   choose   results   in   either   category.   In   addition, we   have   implemented  enhanced   time - travel   functionality at   the   top   of   each   page   where users   can   see   past,   present  and future versions of rules; the legal instruments that changed each rule; and related  regulatory material. 86  6.8   To support stakeholders’ ability to identify and find relevant regulatory material, policies  are   to   be   reorganised   into   a   more   efficient   and   coherent   structure   by   grouping   relevant   policy  material into topic areas. We believe that the grouping used in the Index is an effective  means of achieving this.  Supporting   efficient   policymaking   through   streamlined   policy  document formats  6.9   To underpin the efficiency and clarity of our Rulebook, our approach is for all relevant  policy material to be in   PRA - developed formats, rather   than in corresponding EU documents.  To   achieve   this,   our   approach   is   to   delete   all   material from   EU - inherited   documents (as   linked  in the index) and to retain the relevant policy content in one of the three forms below:  •   PRA   rules,   which   are   legally   enforceable   and   give   effect   to   PRA   policies   by   setting   out  the requirements firms must comply with;  84   https://www.prarulebook.co.uk  85   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/prudential - and - resolution - policy - index  86   Further   details   on   our   approach   to   improving   the PRA   Rulebook,   including   the   digitisation   of   other   regulatory  materials and improved accessibility for users of assistive technology, can be found here:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/november/pra - rulebook -  website - updates .

•   supervisory statements, which contain PRA expectations and provide additional  guidance   on   how   firms   can   comply   with   the   requirements   imposed   by   rules   and   meet  the intended outcomes; and  •   statements   of policy,   which   set   out   our   approach   to   policy   on   a   particular   matter.  6.10   There are additional channels and vehicles through which we communicate with our  stakeholders   on   policy   matters.   These   include   letters   to   firms’   executives   and   speeches.   This  material can   help   clarify our expectations   and   provide   background on the underlying   intent   of  policy. Our approach is for these communications to stand alongside our policy materials,  where we consider this may be helpful.  6.11   Our   intention   is   to   no   longer   issue   technical   standards. 87   Instead,   our   approach   is   to  move relevant information in the current technical standards into our rules. Remaining  technical standards will be deleted.  Adopting   a   clear   and   consistent   approach   to   the   structure   and  language used in our policies  6.12   Our approach is for rules to follow a clear structure. This includes moving to a coherent  structure   that   is   in   line   with   the   Index,   over   time. Policies   will   be   written   in   plain   english,   using  PRA terminology (and phasing out EU terminology), and adopting inclusive language. 88  6.13   Our policy consultations include proposals on the use of language where we can  consistently   and   appropriately   use   PRA   terms   rather   than   EU   terms;   for   example,   whether   to  use the PRA term ‘Board member’ rather than the EU term ‘member of management body’.  We have already clarified that references to ‘own funds’ in EU - derived legislation are  equivalent to UK references to ‘capital’. 89  6.14   For policy areas where some material remains in legislation, we may continue to use  two   different   terms   to   facilitate   easier   cross - referencing.   Where   this   is   the   case,   we   explain   it  clearly in our Rulebook or related policy documents.  87   Unless   alternatives   such   as   making   rules   would   not   be   effective   or   appropriate.  88   For   example,   replace   ‘chairman’   with   ‘chair’.  89   For   example,   in   our   recent CP   on   Definition   of   capital   –   PRA   September   2022,   we   clarified   that   the   EU   term  ‘own funds’ was synonymous and used interchangeably with the term ‘capital,’ but that it was necessary to  use the EU terminology in certain instances, to ensure coherence with assimilated law.

Appendix   1   –   References   for   Box   1  Aldasoro,   I.,   Avdjiev,   S.,   Borio,   C.,   and   Disyatat,   P.   2020.   “Global   and   domestic   financial  cycles: variations on a theme.” BIS Working Paper No. 864.  Antoniades,   A.,   Calomiris,   C.,   “Mortgage   Market   Credit   Conditions   and   U.S.   Presidential  Elections.” National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper 24459.  Barrell,   R.,   Davis,   E.   P.,   Karim,   D.,   and   Liadze,   I.   2010.   “The   Impact   of   Global   Imbalances:  Does the Current Account Balance Help to Predict Banking Crises in OECD Countries?’  NIESR Discussion Paper no. 351.  Basel   Committee   on   Banking   Supervision   2010.   “An   Assessment   of   the   Long - term   Economic  Impact of Stronger Capital and Liquidity Requirements.” available at:  http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs173.pdf .  Basel   Committee   on   Banking   Supervision   2019.   “The   costs   and   benefits   of   bank   capital   –   a  review of the literature”, BCBS Working Paper 37, available at:  https://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/wp37.pdf .  Boyd,   J.   H.,   Kwak,   S.,   and   Smith,   B.   2005.   “The   Real   Output Losses   Associated   with   Modern  Banking Crises.” Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, 37, 977 – 99.  Brooke, M., Bush, O., Edwards, R., Ellis, J., Francis, B., Harimohan, R., Neiss, K., and  Siegert,   C.   2015.   “Measuring   the   Macroeconomic   Costs   and   Benefits   of   Higher   UK   Bank  Capital Requirements.” Bank of England Financial Stability Paper No. 35, available at:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/financial - stability -  paper/2015/measuring - the - macroeconomic - costs - and - benefits - of.pdf .  Cecchetti,   S.,   Kohler,   M.,   and   Upper,   C.   2009.   “Financial   Crises   and   Economic   Activity.”  National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper 15379, available at:  http://www.nber.org/papers/w15379.pdf .  Cerra,   V.,   and   Saxena,   S.   C.   2007.   “Growth   Dynamics:   The   Myth   of   Economic   Recovery.”  BIS Working Paper 226, available at:   http://www.bis.org/publ/work226.pdf .  Claessens,   M.,   Ayhan   Kose,   M.,   and   Terrones,   M.   2011.   “Financial   Cycles:   What?   How?  When?” IMF Working Paper 11/76.  Cline,   W   R   (2017):   The   right   balance   for   banks:   Theory   and   evidence   on   optimal   capital  requirements, Columbia University Press.  Dagher,   J.,   2018.   “Regulatory   Cycles:   Revisiting   the   Political   Economy   of   Financial   Crises.”  Working Paper 2018/008.

Das,   U.,   Quintyn,   M.,   Taylor,   M.,   2002.   “Financial   Regulators   Need   Independence.”   Finance  & Development, Volume 39, Number 4.  Dincer,   N.,   Eichengreen,   B.,   2014.   “Central   Bank   Transparency   and   Independence:   Updates  and New Measures.” International Journal of Central Banking 10: 189 - 253.  Fender,   I   and   U   Lewrick,   2016:   "Adding   it   all   up:   The   macroeconomic   impact   of   Basel   III   and  outstanding reform issues", BIS Working Papers no 591, available at:  www.bis.org/publ/work591.pdf .  Firestone,   S,   A Lorenc   and   B Ranish, 2017. “An empirical economic   assessment of   the costs  and   benefits   of   bank   capital   in   the   US”,   Finance   and   Economics   Discussion   Series   2017 - 034,  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, available at  https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/feds/an - empirical - economic - assessment - of -  the - costs - and - benefits - of - bank - capital - in - the - us.htm  Furceri,   D.,   and   Mourougane,   A.   2009.   “The   Effect   of   Financial   Crises   on   Potential   Output:  New Empirical Evidence from OECD Countries.” OECD Economics Department Working  Papers 699.  Furceri,   D.,   and   Zdzienicka,   A.   2010.   “Banking   Crises   and   Short   and   Medium   Term   Output  Losses in Developing Countries: The Role of Structural and Policy Variables.”  Fraccaroli, N., Sowerbutts, R., Whitworth, A., 2020. “Does regulatory and supervisory  independence   affect   financial   stability?”   Bank   of   England,   Staff   Working   Paper   No.   893.  Gerba,   E.,   2015,   Financial   cycles   and   macroeconomic   stability:   how   secular   is   the   Great  Recession?, LAP Lambert Academic Publishing.  Haldane,   A.   2010.   “The   $100   Billion   Question”,   speech   at   the   Institute   of   Regulation   &   Risk,  North Asia (IRRNA), Hong Kong, 30 March.  Haugh, D., Ollivaud, P., and Turner, D. 2009. “The Macroeconomic Consequences of  Banking   Crises   in   OECD   Countries.”   OECD   Economics   Department   Working   Paper   683.  Herrera,   H.,   Ordonez,   G.,   and   Trebesch,   C.   2020. “Political   Booms,   Financial   Crises”,   Journal  of Political Economy, vo. 128, no. 2: 507 - 543.  Hoggarth,   G.,   Reis,   R.,   and   Saporta,   V.   2002.   “Costs   of   Banking   System   Instability:   Some  Empirical Evidence.” Journal of Banking and Finance, 26, 825 – 55.  IMF   2009.   “What’s   the   Damage?   Medium - term   Output   Dynamics   after   Financial   Crises.”  World Economic Outlook, October.

Klomp,   J.,   de   Haan,   J.,   2009.   “Central   bank   independence   and   financial   instability.”   Journal   of  Financial Stability, 2009, vol. 5, issue 4, 321 - 338.  Laeven,   L.,   and   Valencia,   F.   2008.   “Systemic   Banking   Crises:   A   New   Database.”   IMF  Working Paper WP/08/224.  Muller,   K.,   2019.   “Electoral   Cycles   in   Macroprudential   Regulation.”   ESRB:   Working   Paper  Series No. 2019/106.  Quintyn,   M.,   Taylor   M.,   2002.   “Regulatory   and   Supervisory   Independence   and   Financial  Stability.” IMF Working Paper WP/02/46.  Romer,   C.,   and   Romer,   H.   2015.   “New   Evidence   on   the   Impact   of   Financial   Crises   in  Advanced Countries.” NBER Working Paper 21021, March, available at:  www.nber.org/papers/w21021 .  Turini,   A.,   Röger,   W.,   and   Szekely,   I.   P.   2010.   “Banking   Crises,   Output   Loss   and   Fiscal  Policy”, CEPR Discussion Paper 7815.


