---
title: "SS125/ – Ss125 April 2025"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2025/ss125-april-2025.pdf"
---

# SS125/ – Ss125 April 2025

S upervisory statement   –   Step - in Risk  Supervisory   s tatement   | SS1/2 5  April   202 5 This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority  Step - in Risk  Supervisory   s tat e ment  April 2025  © Bank of England   202 5  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   1  Contents  Contents   1  1: Introduction   3  2: Indicators of step - in risk   4  Nature and degree of sponsorship   4  Degree of influence   5  Implicit support   5  Capitalisation and reliance on leverage   6  Liquidity stress or first - mover incentive   6  Transparency and disclosure/investor disclosure   7  Accounting disclosures   8  Investor risk alignment   9  Reputational risk from branding and cross - selling   9  Historical dependence   10  Regulatory restrictions and mitigants   10  3: Potential responses to step - in risk   11  Stress testing and scenario analysis   12  Inclusion in the regulatory scope of consolidation   12  Liquidity requirements   13  Large exposure - like internal limit   13  Disclosure   14  Conversion approach   14  Provisioning   15  4: Step - in risk policies   16  Materiality policy   16  Significance   16  Entity types   16  Annex 1   –   Illustrative entity categories   18  Entities issuing residential mortgage - backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage -  backed securities (CMBS) or other assets (ie credit cards, auto loans)   18  Entities issuing covered bonds   18 This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   2  Entities issuing collateralised debt obligations (CDOs) and collateralised loan obligations  (CLOs)   18  Entities issuing tender option bonds (TOBs)   19  Entities issuing asset - backed commercial paper (ABCP)   19  Securities arbitrage conduits   20  Structured investment vehicles (SIVs)   20  Repackaging vehicles   20  Real estate investment trusts (REITs)   21  Mutual funds   21  Hedge funds   21  Private equity funds   22  Finance companies   22  Securities firms   22  Annex 2   -   Guidelines for completing templates for reporting the step - in risk  assessment (SI0, SI1 and SI2)   23 This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   3  1 :   Introduction  1.1   This supervisory statement   (SS)   is relevant to all banks, building societies, and  designated investment   firms and all PRA - approved or PRA - designated holding companies  that are required to undertake step - in risk assessments   under the Step - i n Risk Part of the  PRA Rulebook .   The Step - in Risk Part applies on a consolidated   basis   for most firms   ( an d at  sub - consolidated level   where a firm must meet requirements at that level).   Firms that are not  part of a consolidation group are required to meet those rules on an individual basis.   T he  reference s to firms below should also be read as applying to CRR consolidation entities that  are not   PRA - authorised firms where the Step - in Risk Part applies to them.  1.2   This statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA) expectations   around  firms undertaking step - in risk assessments.   This statement should be read in conjunction  with the requirements in the Step - i n Risk Part of the PRA Rulebook and the high - level  expectations outlined in   t he PRA’s approach to banking supervision. 1  1.3   This statement also provides links to the reporting guidance by   which firms should  complete the step - in risk data items required under PRA rules   ( Annex 2). This guidance is  intended to help ensure a consistent reporting framework to enable the PRA to use the  information collected from the step - in risk assessments efficiently and effectively.  1   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/pras - approach - to -  supervision - of - the - banking - and - insurance - sectors . This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   4  2 :   Indicators of step - in risk  2.1   Step - in risk is   the risk that   a   firm provides financial support to a step - in entity in stressed  conditions, in the absence of, or in excess of any contractual obligation to do so.   F irms   are  required   to assess whether step - in risk in respect of material step - in entities is significant . 2   As  part of that assessment,   firms   are required   to consider   (amongst other things)   a number of  prescribed   indicators of step - in risk . 3   The se   indicators should be considered both individually  and in combination ,   bearing in mind the purpose and design of the   material step - in   enti ties ,  considering in particular the relevant activities carried out and administered by the   entities  and   how decisions about those activities are made. This   should   ensure   firms   are able to  consider   fully   the nature of their relationship with a step - in entity and whether firm s   are   likely  to be incentivised   to step   in   to provide financial support   during a time of stress ( eg   due to the  potential reputational risks involved).  2.2   The PRA would expect   step - in risk for   a material   step - in entity   (or for a series of similar  entities where step - in risk is identified as material in combination)   to be significant where  there is a strong indication   overall   that a firm will step   in based on analysis of the step - in risk  indicators. This may be in situations where two or more of the step - in risk indicators are  relevant   in indicating that a firm is likely to step   in   or where a single indicator alone suggests  that a firm is likely to step   in.  Nature and degree of sponsorship  2.3   In considering the nature and degree of sponsorship, the PRA expects the firm to  consider whether, in its role as sponsor, the firm may be exposed to a greater degree of step -  in risk in certain cases, such as when it:  a.   provides full sponsor   support, via   a guarantee or other credit enhancement; or  b.   provides partial credit enhancements and liquidity facilities while playing a role in  decision - making.  2.4   T he PRA would expect the firm to consider this   to be a potentially strong   indicator   in  particular   where:  a.   t he firm is a   full sponsor of an entity ; and  2   Step - in Risk 7.1.  3   Step - in Risk 7.2. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   5  b.   t he firm provides partial upfront facilities to an entity where the firm is also, to a  relevant degree, a decision - maker.  Degree of influence  2.5   The PRA expects the firm to consider the degree to which   it   exercises influence over the  step - in   entity. This indicator is not meant to be synonymous with the accounting notion of  power or control that is a prerequisite for accounting consolidation but rather a lower  threshold (eg significant influence). A greater degree of   influence over an entity may be  indicative of a greater incentive to step in during a time of financial stress.  2.6   The   PRA would expect the firm to consider   this   as a potentially strong   indicator in  particular   where the firm has:  a.   Capital ties of less than 50% and power to exercise a significant influence over the  entity’s   management.  b.   Capital ties of 50% or more but no regulatory consolidation.  c.   No capital ties but the ability to remove and appoint the board of directors.  d.   In the case of Special Purpose Entities (including   ’ autopilot ’ 4   vehicles), the  existence of organisational and financial relationships that effectively transfer to  the firm most of the risks and/or benefits of the vehicle’s activities.  2.7   T his indicator may be   less   strong   where the firm is merely an agent, making decisions  subject to a contractual mandate, and has no other exposure to the entity’s variable returns.  This does not preclude the firm from assessing other indicators,   which   might point to the  existence of step - in risk.  Implicit support  2.8   T he PRA expects the firm to consider whether it is providing an implicit guarantee, for  instance in investors’ rate of return expectations. In considering such expectations, the firm  would evaluate, by comparison with other similar entities, whether the inv estor is accepting a  lower rate of return on its investment relative to the risk. This could potentially indicate that  the investor expects the sponsoring firm to support the entity in a stress scenario. This  indicator should also take into account th e entity’s credit rating, whether assigned by a third -  4   Examples of this may include entities whose activities are predetermined at the outset, so that no  substantive management decisions are required to be made under normal circumstances. (See   Report on  Special Purpose Entities :   https://www.bis.org/publ/joint23.htm   -   page 64 discussion of ‘actively managed’  and ‘passive’ structures ) . This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   6  party rating agency or internally by the firm, and specifically the extent to which the entity’s  rating is dependent on the firm’s or parent company’s credit rating.  2.9   The   PRA would expect the firm to consider this   as a potentially strong   indicator   in  particular where :  a.   e ntities which are assigned a better rating than would have been the case  without considering the relationship with the firm (ie   the entity’s rating is reliant  on the firm’s or parent company’s rating to an extent that exceeds a contractual  arrangement).  b.   e ntities where the rate of return accepted by investors is materially lower than  what is indicated by the risks of the entity’s assets.  Capitalisation and reliance on leverage  2. 10   The PRA also expects firms to consider situations where an entity may be highly  leveraged at its inception relative to the risks associated with the assets it holds. These  entities are often characterised by control being exercised through means other than  traditional voting rights. Although these entities are already evaluated under accounting  consolidation requirements, this indicator is meant to highlight that these types of entity are  more prone to step - in risk than adequately capitalised entities.  2.11   T he PRA would expect the firm to consider this indicator   in relation to :  a.   structured   entities   under   International   F inancial   R eporting   S tandards (IFRS)   and  variable interest entities under US G enerally   A ccepted   A ccount   P rinciples  (GAAP) ; or  b.   comparable entities under relevant accounting regime.  Liquidity stress or first - mover incentive  2.1 2   The PRA expects firms to consider the potential that a firm’s liquidity stress might be  increased and exacerbated, as this is a key element to consider in the step - in analysis. This  indicator refers to entities with a limited capacity to access liquidity w hen facing an  unanticipated increase in redemption requests (ie they cannot sell enough assets to meet the  redemption) ,   which would therefore impact the firm’s liquidity should it conclude that it must  provide step - in support. This would include situa tions where long - term assets are funded with  short - term liabilities (ie maturity mismatch).   T h erefore , all other things being equal, off -  balance sheet entities that engage in maturity transformation by holding non - risk - free assets  (ie those other than sovereign - backed bonds) increase the potential for step - in. Entities  holding large cash reserves or high - quality liquid asset (HQLA) equivalents for regulatory This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   7  reasons would be less likely to increase step - in risk because their increased liquidity needs  during stress periods would already be covered, at least in part.  2.1 3   As a corollary to liquidity concerns, liability run risks are heightened when it is  advantageous for an investor to exit the entity before others do. This scenario is more acute  when there are no potential barriers to redemptions (ie redemption gates). Als o of note are  entities whose performance depends on an illiquid benchmark and which are hence more  prone to volatile valuations and large drops in value during periods of liquidity stress (eg  emerging market equity index funds, corporate bond funds an d high yield bond funds).  2.1 4   T he PRA would expect the firm to consider this indicator   in relation to :  a.   Structured investment vehicles (SIVs) , as they were   particularly prone to  investor runs   during the financial crisis .  b.   Funds redeemable at constant net asset values (NAV).  c.   Funds that do not exercise any type of redemption penalty (eg redemption fees,  swing prices).  d.   Significant mismatch between asset and liability maturities.  2.15   This indicator may be less relevant in respect of :  a.   Index funds.  b.   Passive   investment funds (eg exchange - traded funds (ETFs)).  c.   Funds that have floating/variable NAVs (eg open - end mutual funds).  d.   Funds with substantial redemption costs or the legal ability to impose  redemption gates.  e.   Pass - through securitisations.  f.   Separately managed/segregated funds (ie funds that legally have only a single  customer).  Transparency and disclosure/investor disclosure  2.16   The PRA expects the firm to consider an entity’s degree of transparency, and the extent  to which investors are provided with   detailed information that allows them to understand and  assess its risk - adjusted returns.   Disclosures are also made to investors within investment This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   8  offering documents (ie in an investment prospectus) regarding any restrictions on the firm’s  contractual obligations to support the entity.  2.17   T he PRA would expect the firm to consider this   to be a potentially strong indicator   in  relation to :  a.   Entities where the risk in underlying investments is opaque.  b.   Entities that cannot be rated or where the rating depends on a range of  unsupported assumptions.  c.   Entities with a return that depends on indirect factors which are difficult to  quantify.  2.18   This indicator may be less   strong   in respect of :  a.   Entities subject to a robust disclosure regime under a regulatory regime that set  out the risks to be absorbed by investors.  b.   Entities that provide clear and frequently updated disclosure of their assets and  liabilities.  Accounting disclosures  2.19   Accounting disclosure requirements can provide meaningful information to   evaluate the  nature and risks of a firm’s involvement with unconsolidated entities.  2.20   T h e PRA would expect   the   firm to consider   this indicator in particular   as part of  accounting disclosures   in relation to :  a.   Exposures to unconsolidated entities disclosed under IFRS 12 or US GAAP VIE  disclosures, or comparable disclosures made under the relevant accounting  regime.  b.   US GAAP disclosures associated with constant - NAV money market funds.  c.   Contingent liabilities that meet disclosure requirements but do not meet the loss  recognition thresholds under accounting standards.  2.21   T his indicator may   be less relevant in relation to   exposures already recognised in capital  through recognition of associated contingent liabilities, with the associated reduction in  capital. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   9  Investor risk alignment  2.22   The PRA expects firms to consider entities whose activities do not sufficiently match the  risk profiles of their clients/investors with those of the risk exposures of the entity. This risk is  not restricted to the narrow case of mis - selling (if such a conc ept exists in a given  jurisdiction); rather, a broad analysis is required of whether the entity’s risk exposures are  aligned with investors’ risk appetites to establish whether the risk exists.  2.23   T he PRA would expect the firm to consider   this   to be a potentially strong   indicator   in  relation to:  a.   Funds that mix different term and/or wealth expectations into a single fund type.  b.   Firms that provide investment products to investors who are loss - averse  (confidence - sensitive products).  c.   Instances where investors have not received any proper explanation of risks (eg  mis - selling).  d.   Firms selling to retail customers products that have bundled, hard - to - price  features (eg subordinated debt, preferred shares, debt instruments with  embedded optionality).  2.24   This indicator may be less   strong   in respect of   entities in jurisdictions where firms are  obliged by law to ensure that particular investment products are appropriate and correspond  to the needs of the investors to whom they are sold.  Reputational risk from branding and cross - selling  2.25   The PRA expects firms to consider the potential harm to a firm’s reputation when an  entity has clients in common with the firm and carries the firm’s brand (eg corporate name,  logo/symbol). Different brand strategies create different risk profiles.  2.26   Branding could strengthen the presumption of step - in support, especially if the brand is  associated with a deposit - taking institution in the same banking group. A distinction could be  made between a   ‘ branded house ’   strategy and a   ‘ house of brands ’   strategy. Under the  ‘ branded house ’   strategy, the firm maintains a corporate master brand that acts as a single  unifying banner, source of reputation and federating force for all product and service  offerings. In a   ‘ house of brands strategy ’ , a firm operates   through an independent set of  standalone brands while keeping the corporate brand itself discrete. To the extent that a  branded house strategy aggregates numerous products and   business lines, it can be  associated with a higher incentive for the firm to step in should one of its products or  businesses be compromised, in order to protect its reputation and brand. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   10  2.27   The evaluation of this indicator should consider the degree to which cross - selling is part  of the firm’s overall strategy, as a greater degree of cross - selling increases reputational risk  and, thus, the incentive to provide step - in support. This is particu larly the case if a firm or  banking group has standalone deposit - taking institution(s), broker - dealer(s) and asset  management unit(s) that cross - sell products.  2.28   T he PRA would expect firms to consider   this   to be a potentially strong   indicator in  particular   in relation to:  a.   Firms that   actively   and successfully cross - sell both on -   and off - balance sheet  products to their key clients.  b.   Firms that use a branded house strategy, where the brand is attached to the  entity.  Historical dependence  2.29   This indicator refers to documented instances where step - in support has been provided  previously to specific types of entity.  2.30   An example of this indicator is the step - in support was provided to money market mutual  funds and SIVs during the financial crisis.  Regulatory restrictions and mitigants  2.31   This indicator refers to banking, securities, market or other financial regulations that  restrict, without prohibiting, a firm’s ability and/or propensity to support an entity on terms that  are unfavourable to the firm.  2.32   T he PRA would expect firms to consider   this indicator in particular in relation to :  a.   Entities for which higher capital requirements are set in order to cover potential  step - in situations.  b.   Entities where a step - in action would be subject to the Federal Reserve Act 23A  and 23B (Regulation W). 5  5   Regulation W requires that transactions with affiliates be conducted on an arms’ length basis and sets limits  for credit relationship exposures between the insured depository institutions and its affiliates. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   11  3 :   Potential responses to step - in risk  3.1   Firms are required to   assess the   potential   impact   of providing financial support   to material  step - in entities   if step - in risk were to materialise . 6   The PRA expects that assessment to  include consideration of   at least   the following factors, which firms are also required to report  in SI2: the type and size of support   anticipated   to the material step - in entity   and , where it has  identified   significant   step - in risk in relation to that entity,   the impact of providing the support  on a firm's CET1 ratio, leverage ratio, LCR and NSFR.  3.2   Firms are required to identify, monitor and manage step - in risk. 7   Where   a   firm ha s  identified significant step - in risk in relation to   a material step - in entity ,   it is   also   required   to  take all reasonable steps to   mitigate that risk . 8   The   PRA expects a firm to determine its own  response to step - in risk based on the circumstances of each case. This includes considering  whether there is any mitigation already in place where significant step - in risk has been  identified. There would be no autom atic presumption as to how a firm might respond to step -  in risk in a particular case. The   PRA expects to discuss the   approaches   chosen with   a   firm  when it reviews   the step - in risk assessment.   The   PRA also expect s   that the   risks that arise  should be incorporated into the firm’s risk management processes and addressed ,   if  appropriate   depending on the firm’s chosen response ,   in its   i nternal   c apital   a dequacy  a ssessment   and liquidity contingency plans.  3. 3   A firm’s approach to step - in risk management and measurement should be sensitive to  any step - in risk which remains   after taking   account of possible risk mitigants.   A f irm should  consider the degree and effectiveness of any mitigants for step - in risk, including the scope for  mitigants to reduce the potential impact on the firm if step - in risk support were provided. The  firm’s risk measurement and management process   are   designed to ensure that the firm has  adequate resources available in advance of potent ial step - in support, which would thus  reduce the procyclicality of such stress. The aim is to avoid a situation where unanticipated  support provided by a firm weakens its ability to meet its own contractual commitments and  its liquidity and/or capital requ irements.  3. 4   Potential mitigants that   a   firm might consider in those circumstances are outlined below.  A f irm can determine the appropriate choice of measure(s), based on the nature and extent  of the anticipated step - in support in each case.   A f irm may use the approaches below either  in isolation or in combination.  6   Step - in Risk 7.3.  7   Step - in Risk   3.1.  8   Step - in Risk 3 .2 . This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   12  Stress testing and scenario analysis  3. 5   Scenario analyses or stress testing may provide a useful way of enabling a firm to  measure potential impact where it identifies potential significant step - in risk.   The purpose of  such analysis will be to allow a firm to understand whether and, if so, to what extent, it is  likely to step   in should the scenario or stress event occur. This should enable the firm to  measure impact of the potential step - in risk event on its financial resources. The firm would  then need to consider what action to take in resp onse to the results of these analyses. This  may be to take additional upfront risk management actions to mitigate adverse effects   if   the  risks covered by the stress or scenario test materialise. Alternatively, the firm may decide that  holding additional capital or liquidity in respect of the   step - in risk   entities might be a more  appropriate mitigant.  Inclusion in the regulatory scope of consolidation  3. 6   Including a step - in risk entity within the regulatory scope of consolidation may be  appropriate where a firm assesses that it already has substantial contractual obligations to  provide support to a step - in risk at a time of stress, augmented by a significa nt risk that the  firm would go beyond these contractual obligations.  3. 7   Inclusion in the regulatory scope of consolidation might therefore be appropriate in  circumstances where:  a.   The step - in entity appears to have been designed specifically to avoid regulatory  consolidation (or exhibits characteristics common to entities that are used to  arbitrage regulatory requirements).  b.   There   have   been   previous   and   documented   step - in   cases   in   similar  circumstances.  c.   There are organisational and financial relations that, in substance, assign to the  bank the majority of the risks and/or of the benefits arising from the activities of  the entities.  d.   There is investor expectation of full or significant support during a stress period.  e.   There is an expectation that the nature and extent of step - in support would trigger  accounting consolidation of the entity and, as a consequence, the inclusion of the  entity in the regulatory scope of consolidation.  3. 8   The illustrative cases above would generate a strong presumption that consolidation  ought to be applied   ( t hey are not, however, intended to be exhaustive and other similar  circumstances may exist) .   However, the PRA’s expectation is that such cases should be This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   13  limited in practice.   A   firm   should also notify the PRA if it is   considering   includ ing   a step - in  entity in the scope of consolidation . In these circumstances   the PRA may   consider   exercis ing  its powers under   s ection 55M of the   Financial Services and Markets Act   (FSMA)   2000   to  require the inclusion of the entity within the regulatory scope of consolidation , as is  anticipated   in the rules . 9  3. 9   This response might not be appropriate when consolidation would artificially improve the  capital or liquidity position of the firm, because the entity’s resources might not be available to  the firm.  Liquidity requirements  3. 10   Where a firm identifies non - contractual obligations that might lead to step - in via the  provision of additional funding to a relevant entity, then liquidity requirements might provide  appropriate risk mitigation ( t his may depend on the indicator that has led to the identification  of step - in risk) .   In particular, a firm may wish to consider   whether the following parts of the  PRA’s liquidity rules apply to the step - in risk circumstances that i t   has identified:  a.   Article 23 of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook  (Additional Liquidity Outflows for Other Products and Services).  b.   Article 30 of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook  (Additional Outflows).  c.   Article 428p(10) of the Liquidity   (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook ( Calculation of  the Amount of Required Stable Funding ).  Large exposure - like internal limit  3.1 1   Firms are already required to set internal limit s   regarding their exposures to shadow  banking entities.   They must set both internal aggregate and individual limits to exposures to  individual shadow banking entities with an exposure value, after credit risk mitigation and  exemptions, equal to or in excess of 0.25% of the institution’s eligible capital . 10   A firm may  therefore want to consider whether it should update its internal limits to enable it to better  mitigate or risk manage particular step - in risks that it has identified. It may also be  appropriate for a firm to consider scenarios in relation to a dverse events in sectors where a  particular sectoral concentration is identified as part of the step - in risk self - assessment.  9   Groups 2.1(1)(c).  10   December 2023   -   Draft   s upervisory   s tatement on   i dentifying,   m onitoring, and   m anaging   e xposures to  s hadow   b anking   e ntities :   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/consultation - paper/2023/december/cp2323app6.pdf . This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   14  Therefore , it could also be appropriate for a   firm   to amend and/or add some stress tests to  those that it currently carries out to reflect risk concentrations.  Disclosure  3.1 2   A firm may find it useful to disclose certain information about its step - in risk assessment  where this does not lead to a ‘self - fulfilling prophecy’ of a firm being seen to confirm that it will  be stepping in to support certain entities. Such disclosures m ight include:  a.   Information about the number, size and nature of unconsolidated entities in terms  of step - in risk, and of firms’ own risk assessment and their management of such  exposures.  b.   Information about the tools that a firm has used in relation to step - in risk, for  example where it has reset its   large - exposures internal limits to shadow banking  entities.  c.   Further qualitative information or explanation in a firm’s annual report about its  exposure to unconsolidated structured entities, perhaps as part of its  International Financial Reporting Standard 12 (IFRS 12) disclosures.  3.1 3   The disclosure of step - in risk information might, however, be better as a complement to  another response to step - in risk rather than being used in isolation.  3.1 4   A second possibility is that firms may disclose more information where they have used  other tools in relation to step - in risk ;   for example, where they have reset their large exposures  internal limits to shadow banking entities. However, another possibility is that firms may wish  to provide further qualitative information or explanation in their annual reports about their  exposure s to unconsolidated structured entities, as per IFRS 12. Where a firm identifies  significant   step - in   risk but   decides that no capital or liquidity mitigant is necessary, it might  explain in more detail its relationships with unconsolidated structured entities in their Annual  Reports or Pillar 3 disclosures.  Conversion approach  3.1 5   In measuring the potential impact of step - in risk, firms may wish to use a conversion -  type approach. This would involve:  a.   Calculating the total assets and off - balance sheet exposures of a step - in entity  minus any exposures that the firm has to it. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   15  b.   Estimating the average risk - weight of the balance - sheet exposures of the step - in  entity (in coming to an estimate of the potential risk - weighted assets that it would  imply).  c.   Multiplying the result by an appropriate conversion factor tailored to the likelihood  of step - in.  3.1 6   A similar estimation could be used for liquidity resources. A firm would need to define  factors needed within this calculation (total assets, estimate of average risk - weight,   and  appropriate conversion factor). So, this approach could help a firm in calculating the potential  impact of step - in. This may supplement regulatory consolidation (ie calculating likely risk -  weighted assets where there is relatively limited entity informati on) or as a way of estimating  the changing impact of step - in (the convers ion factor might be altered from time to time as  the firm revises the likelihood of step - in).  Provisioning  3.1 7   Where accounting standards have not required firms to make provisions , firms may find  it helpful to calculate the potential provision that they might need to make against step - in risk  should a loss arise. This could be a useful way of a firm managing its step - in risk by  calculating and monitoring its potential exposure. The   firm could then consider whether,  based on the likelihood of the step - in arising, their response would be to mitigate this risk by  risk managing it o r   by holding extra capital or li quidity against it. So, similar to the conversion  approach, this is a tool that a firm could use primarily for calculation and monitoring  purposes. This is likely to be a proportionate response to step - in risk, as it ensures that step -  in risk is adequately   calculated and monitored. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   16  4 :   Step - in risk policies  Materiality policy  4.1   The PRA expects   a   firm to   determine   materiality   in describing its approach to identifying  immaterial step - in risk entities under Rule   8.2(2)   of the Step - i n Risk Part of the PRA  Rulebook   using a quantitative metric. Examples might include   determining   materiality for the  purpose of identifying   step - in risk   as a proportion of   its   own   capital (eg   C ommon   E quity   T ier  1 )   or total assets.  4.2   A firm’s step - in risk policies and procedures will be drawn up for the consolidated   or sub -  consolidated   group   in most cases   (t his will not apply where the step - in risk rules apply on an  individual basis ).   The PRA would, however, expect a firm’s materiality policy to consider  circumstances where a possible step - in entity or entities are material for a PRA - authorised  firm within its group, but not for the consolidated   or   sub - consolidated   group. So,   it   should set  a relevant   threshold   for any PRA - authorised   firm within the consolidated   or sub - consolidated  group to capture these potential instances. These   entities   should not be considered as  ‘immaterial’ and so should be included as material step - in risk entities for the purposes   of   the  step - in risk assessment.  4.3 When considering whether a   step - in entity   is material, the PRA expects   firms   to   also  determine   the total asset size of the step - in entity , which firms are also required to   report in  SI 1   and SI2 .  Significance  4. 4   The PRA expects firms to outline their approach to determining significance within its  step - in risk policies   under Rule 8.2(3) of the Step - i n Risk Part of the PRA Rulebook . This may  include consideration of some of the examples of step - in risk given in relation to the  indicators in   Section   2 of this   s upervisory   s tatement.  Entity types  4. 5   The PRA also expects that a firm ’ s step - in risk policies should make clear the types of  entities that are being considered in its step - in risk analysis. The PRA expects that these  would include at least the entities   listed in the   defin ition   of   unconsolidated entities in the Step -  i n Risk Part of the PRA Rulebook and those entit y types   listed in   Annex 1 .   However, in  identifying other types of entities   (as the list of unconsolidated entities and those in Annex 1  is not exhaustive) , those policies should be flexible enough to capture all entities that are  unconsolidated for regulatory purposes and which pose step - in risk rather than being focused This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   17  narrowly on particular types of undertakings. 11   Commercial entities may generally be  excluded from the step - in risk assessment except to the extent that they are one of the types  of entity list ed   in Annex 1 or are defined as an unconsolidated entity within the Step - i n Risk  Part of the PRA Rulebook.  4.6 The PRA does not expect firms to assess entities   in relation to the debt or equity investor  definition   where its only relationship with them is regular commercial lending activity as part  of its step - in risk assessment   (ie where they are lending to an entity rather than investing in  its debt or equity).  4.7 A firm undertaking market - making activity may maintain debt or equity positions on its  books for longer periods tha n   intended. If so, a firm should note in its policies and procedures  the principles it would use to determine whether such investments should remain part of its  market - making activity (ie to determine whether they should continue to be excluded from its  ste p - in risk assessment).  4.8 The PRA expects that, where a firm considers that step - in risk may be mitigated due to  national legislation or regulation prohibiting step - in, it should include the details of any such  material within its policies and procedures. A firm should clarify   in its step - in risk assessment  how a specific prohibition would apply in relation to an entity where it considers that the  prohibition mitigates potential step - in risk.  11   A firm may, for example, wish to   include entities undertaking operating leasing within the entities being  considered within its step - in risk analysis as one of these other entity types. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   18  Annex   1   –   Illustrative entity categories  Entities issuing residential mortgage - backed securities (RMBS)  and commercial mortgage - backed securities (CMBS) or other  assets (ie credit cards, auto loans)  This structure is especially used under the   ‘ originate and distribute ’   model. The proceeds  received by the   s pecial   p urpose   e ntity (SPE) on the issuance of mortgage - backed securities  (there are often several tranches of securities, depending on the subordinated rank) are used  to buy loans originated or bought by a   firm   (the seller). The seller uses the proceeds for other  purposes, including making loans to other borrowers. The principal and interest payments  from the underlying loans are passed through to the securities holders, who are exposed to  the delinquency risk of   the o riginal borrowers (depending on the tranches they have invested  in).  During the financial crisis, the ratings of many RMBS/CMBS collapsed. In order to achieve  higher ratings for regulatory risk capital purposes, several RMBS/CMBS were converted into  re - securitised real estate mortgage investment conduits (re - REMICs).  Entities issuing covered bonds  Covered bonds are quite similar to mortgage - backed securities. The differences are that they  are not always structured through an SPE (ie they can be issued directly by the   firm ) and  they are direct obligations of the issuing entity. In other words, the underlying financial assets  act as collateral and the covered bondholders are not exposed to the credit quality of these  assets unless the issuing entity becomes insolvent.  Entities issuing collateralised debt obligations (CDOs) and  collateralised loan obligations (CLOs)  There are two types of CDO: cash CDOs and synthetic CDOs. In a cash CDO, the proceeds  of the securities issued by the SPE are used to purchase the underlying portfolio of financial  assets. By contrast, in a synthetic CDO, the SPE (seller of protection) ent ers into a   Credit  Default Swap ( CDS )   contract on a reference portfolio of assets with the protection buyer and  uses the proceeds of the issued securities to buy highly liquid and high - quality financial  assets to cover the SPE’s obligations under the CDS. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   19  Cash CDO  The structure of the transaction is similar to   the basic securitisation structure, except that the  nature of the underlying assets could be more diverse (RMBS, CMBS, corporate bonds,  CDOs issued by other SPEs etc). Depending on the type of underlying asset, these SPEs  may also be known as CLOs (when t he underlying assets are loans) or CBOs (when the  underlying assets are bonds).   Firms   may execute interest rate derivatives with the SPE to  eliminate mismatches in the collateral and funding instruments.  Synthetic CDO  As mentioned above, the SPE enters into a CDS contract and invests in highly liquid and  high - quality assets to collateralise its commitments under the CDS. The premium received on  the CDS, together with the revenue on the assets, allows the SPE to pay the   interest on the  issued securities. In the case of a credit event on the CDS, the SPE pays the protection  buyer (the cash comes from the sale of some of the highly liquid and high - quality assets for  the corresponding amount) and writes down the issued secur ities according to the  subordinated rank of each. Significant leverage through the use of credit derivatives is often  employed as part of the overall strategy for synthetic CDOs.  Entities issuing tender option bonds (TOBs)  TOBs are essentially a way to fund long - term municipal bonds in the short - term market.  Typically, a TOB sponsor will buy a portfolio of fixed rate, long - term municipal bonds (rated  between AA and AAA) and combine them with an interest rate swap and create,   through  securitisation in an SPE, senior short - term tax - exempt floating rate notes that are sold to  investors. Two tranches of notes are issued (with different subordination ranks): senior  securities and junior notes. Investors in the latter have a levera ged exposure to the  underlying municipal bonds. The senior note holders have a put option (the tender option),  which allows them to put their bonds back to the issuer at par at any time.   Firms   may also  provide liquidity guarantees and interest rate derivatives to these types of SPE.  Entities issuing asset - backed commercial paper (ABCP)  Under an ABCP programme, an SPE buys and funds assets using the basic securitisation  framework. However, unlike a   ‘ term ’   securitisation, ABCP programmes generally have no  maturity and are intended to be essentially perpetual. As the duration of commercial paper is  shorter than the maturity of the assets, the issued securities are rolled over, meaning that the  proceeds of ne w commercial paper are used to repay maturing commercial paper. In most  cases, when the conduit is unable to issue new commercial paper,   it can use a backup  liquidity facility or asset purchase agreement provided by a large commercial bank. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   20  On the asset side, the SPE buys financial instruments sold by one or multiple sellers. In the  former case, a bank securitises its own assets. In the latter, the bank administers an SPE  that is used to provide funding for its clients (through the securitisa tion of the clients’  receivables).  Securities arbitrage conduits  Securities arbitrage conduits allow sponsors, typically   firms , to finance an investment in  highly rated securities with short - term borrowing. These conduits can be on - balance   or off -  balance sheet. They enable the   firm   to benefit from the term structure of interest rates and  credit spreads. Similar to single -   and multi - seller conduits, these types of programme rely on  the existence of liquidity facilities to ensure that the commercial paper investors can be  repaid if the issuer cannot issue new commercial pa per.  Structured investment vehicles (SIVs)  SIVs are similar to securities arbitrage conduits in the sense that they invest in highly rated  securities. However, the structuring of the transactions differs significantly, and SIVs are  among the more complex structured finance arrangements.  SIVs are leveraged investment vehicles. Unlike securities arbitrage conduits, SIVs raise third -  party capital and leverage this capital by issuing both short - term (commercial paper) and  medium - term notes. In addition, they do not rely exclusively on   firm   liquidity facilities to  manage their liquidity risk; they also implement a dynamic liquidity management process (ie  maintenance of liquid assets and   firm   facilities to cover the upcoming two or three weeks of  cumulative net cash outflows).  Repackaging vehicles  Repackaging vehicles are a client - driven business for   firms . They allow   firms ’ clients to  access markets and invest in specific assets that, for regulatory or tax reasons, they may be  unable or unwilling to invest in directly. The basic structure entails the purchase by an SPE  (established by the structuring   firms ) of one type of security from another entity. The SPE  then issues its own debt or equity securities (the   ‘ repackaged securities ’ ). This structure  allows the benefits of the underlying security to pass on to the holders of the repackaged  securities (the   firms’   clients) and provide them with a mechanism to acquire exposure to  many asset classes and risk profiles in a single instrument.  Example of the use of a repackaging vehicle: transaction implying   ‘ auction rate securities ’ ,  when they are structured through an SPE. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   21  Real estate investment trusts   (REITs)  REITs are entities that invest in different kinds of real estate or real estate - related assets,  including shopping centres, office buildings, hotels and mortgages secured by real estate.  There are basically three types of REIT:  •   Equity REITs, the most common type, invest in or own real estate and provide a return  to investors from the rents they collect.  •   Mortgage REITs lend money to owners and developers or invest in financial  instruments secured by mortgages on real estate.  •   Hybrid REITs are a combination of equity and mortgage REITs.  Mutual funds  A mutual fund is an investment vehicle made up of a pool of funds collected from many  investors for the purpose of investing in securities such as stocks, bonds, money market  instruments and similar assets. The following two types of mutual fund have uniqu e  characteristics that bear mention.  Money market funds (and the equivalent mutual funds in other jurisdictions)  A money market fund is a type of mutual fund that is required by law to invest in low - risk  securities. These funds have relatively low risks compared with other mutual funds and pay  dividends that generally reflect short - term interest rates. Money market f unds typically invest  in government securities, certificates of deposit, corporate commercial paper or other highly  liquid and low - risk securities.  Exchange - traded funds  An   exchange - traded fund (ETF) is an indexed fund listed on a stock exchange .   An ETF can  track an index (eg the S&P 500), a commodity or a basket of assets. ETFs experience price  changes throughout the day as they are bought and sold. ETFs may also employ leverage,  with derivatives or debt as part of their investment strategy.  Hedge funds  Hedge funds are frequently defined as any pooled investment vehicle that is privately  organised, administered by professional investment managers, and not widely available to  the public. Unlike mutual funds, hedge funds are not subject to stringent legal o r regulatory  guidelines concerning their investment strategies. There is a wide variety of investment styles  in the hedge fund industry (eg global macro funds, market - neutral funds, event - driven funds, This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   22  short sellers) and of trading strategies within the same investment category. The amount of  leverage used by hedge funds largely depends on their trading strategies. Hedge funds that  invest mostly in debt securities or equivalent products are known as cred it hedge funds.  Some   firms   have set up hedge funds within their asset management businesses. In addition,  some have built up extensive businesses with hedge funds as clients: counterparty trading,  derivatives activity, brokerage services, direct equity investments and direct lendin g ( ‘ prime  brokerage ’ ).  Private equity funds  Private equity funds make investments directly in the capital of private companies or conduct  buyouts of public companies that result in either majority ownership or full ownership and the  delisting of public equity. Capital for private equity is raised fr om retail and institutional  investors, and can be used to fund new technologies, expand working capital within a  privately owned company, make acquisitions or strengthen a balance sheet.  Finance companies  Finance companies include non - bank entities that grant loans (mortgage loans, auto loans  etc) or offer financial leasing contracts. This category also includes factoring companies  (prepayment of commercial receivables).  Securities firms  Securities firms include investment firms, as defined in the PRA Rulebook   G lossary:  ‘Investment firm means any legal person whose regular occupation or business is the  provision of one or more investment services to third parties and/or the performance of one  or more investment activities on a professional basis. ’   In the U S , the Securities Exchange Act  generally defines a broker as any person engaged in the business of effecting transactions in  securities for the account of others (in the role of agent). By   contrast, a dealer acts as a  principal and is defined as any person engaged in the business of buying and selling  securities for his own account, through a broker, for instance. This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   23  Annex 2   -   Guidelines for completing  template s   for reporting the step - in risk  assessment (SI0, SI1 and SI2)  Name   Data item   Instructions  SI0   General  information  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/templates -  for - reporting - the - step - in - risk -  assessment.xlsx  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/step - in - risk -  assessment - instructions.pdf  SI1   Identification  of step - in  entities  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/templates -  for - reporting - the - step - in - risk -  assessment.xlsx  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/step - in - risk -  assessment - instructions.pdf  SI2   Detailed  reporting of  material step -  in entities  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/templates -  for - reporting - the - step - in - risk -  assessment.xlsx  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ -  /media/boe/files/prudential -  regulation/policy -  statement/2025/april/step - in - risk -  assessment - instructions.pdf This SS is effective from 1 January 2026 and was published as part of PS5/25. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2025/april/step-in-risk-shadow-banking-entities-and-groups-of-connected-clients-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2026


