---
title: "SS1313/ – Ss1313 Near Final December 2023 Update"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2023/ss1313-near-final-december-2023-update.pdf"
---

# SS1313/ – Ss1313 Near Final December 2023 Update

Supervisory Statement | SS13/13  Market risk  December 2023  (Updat ing November 2020 ) This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Supervisory Statement   |   SS13/13  Market risk  December 2023  (Updating   November 2020 ) This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Contents  Introduction   3  Mat e r i al   de f ic i e nc i es   in   r i s k   c a p t u r e by   an   i n sti t u t io n ’ s inte r n a l a p p r o a ch   3  Simplified standardised approach for options   6  3A   Sensitivity Models for Interest Rate Risk   7  3B   Calculation of the overall net foreign exchange   position   8  Netting a convertible with its underlying instrument   9  Offsetting derivative instruments   9  5A   Corrections to modified duration for debt instruments under Article 340 of the  Market Risk: Simplified   Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   11  Exclusion of overshootings when determining multiplication factor addends   12  Derivation of notional positions for simplified standardised approaches   13  Qualifying debt instruments   16  Expectations relating to internal models   18  Stressed VaR cal culation   22  Requirement to have an internal IRC model   22  Annual SMF attestation of market risk internal models   23  Alternative definitions of sensitivities in the advanced standardised approach   23  Appendix   –   SS13/13 updates   24 This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

3   Market risk   December 2023  Introduction  1.1   This   s up er v i s o r y   s t a t e m ent is ai m ed at   Capital Requirements Regulation ( CRR )   firms and CRR  consolidation entities . 1  1.2   It sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations of firms in relation   to  market risk and should be considered in addition to requirements set out in the Trading Book (CRR),  Market Risk: General Provisions (CRR), Market Risk: Simplifie d Standardised Approach (CRR), Market  Risk: Advanced Standardised Approach (CRR) and Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Parts  of the PRA Rulebook and the high - level expectations outlined in ‘The PRA’s approach to banking  supervision’. 2  1.3   This statem ent details the PRA’s expectations with regard to the following:  •   Material deficiencies in risk capture by an institution’s internal approach .  •   Simplified standardised approach for options .  •   Offsetting derivative instruments .  •   Corrections to modified duration   for debt instruments subject to prepayment risk .  •   Exclusion of back - testing exceptions when determining multiplication factor addends .  •   Derivation of notional positions for   simplified   standardised approaches .  •   Qualifying debt instruments .  •   Expectations relating to internal models .  •   Requirement to have an internal default risk charge (DRC) model .  •   Annual Senior Management Function ( SMF)   attestation of market risk internal models .  •   Alternative definitions of sensitivities   in the advanced standard ised approach .  Mat e r i al   de f ic i e nc i es   in   r i s k   c a p t u r e by   an   i n sti t u t io n ’ s inte r n a l  a p p r o a ch  2.1   This   chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations regarding the calculation of additional own funds  for the purposes of Article 325az( 4 ) of the Market Risk:   Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part of the  PRA Rulebook, which applies where a firm has permission to calculate own funds requirements for  one or more categories of market risk under Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part. It  requires firms to iden tify any risks which are not adequately captured by those models and to hold  additional own funds against material risks. The methodology for the identification   of those risks and  1   On 23 February 2017, this SS was updated   –   see   a ppendix for full details.  2   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/supervision/approach/default.aspx . This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   4  the calculation of those   additional own funds for   internal model approach ( IMA )   models is referred  to as the ‘(risks not in models)   RNIM   framework’.  2.2   Firms are responsible for identifying these additional risks, and this should be seen as an  opportunity for risk managers and management to better understand the shortcomings of the   firm’s  models. Firms are expected to validate the appropriateness of the RNIM framework.  Scope of the Risks not in Models (RNIM) framework  2.3   The RNIM framework is intended to ensure that own funds are held to meet all risks which are  not   captured, or not captured adequately, by the firm’s models for expected shortfall (ES), non -  modellable risk factors (NMRFs) and the default risk charge (DRC).   These include, but are not limited  to: (1) missing risks such as cross - risks and higher - order risks, resulting from the re - pricing methods  used in those models; and (2) missing risk factors such as basis risk factors and calibration  parameters for which hi storical changes may significantly underestimate the risks. The RNIM  framework is also intended to cover event risks that could adversely affect the relevant business.  Identification and measurement framework  2.4   The PRA expects firms to systematically identif y and measure all non - captured or poorly  captured   risks for the purpose of calculating additional own funds against those risks that the firm  assesses are material. Firms should have in place a formal process through which senior  management are made aware   of limitations and assumptions of firms’ IMA models and the impact  that those limitations and assumptions can have on the reliability of IMA model output.  2.4A In complying with these expectations, the PRA expects that all firms should be able to make  rea dily available a single, comprehensive inventory of limitations and assumptions that may affect  the output of IMA models to senior management, the PRA and other stakeholders. This should  include all limitations and assumptions identified during the validat ion of the individual models that  make up the IMA framework, as well as overarching limitations and assumptions which affect the  calculation of IMA risk measures under both the current and stress period calibration. The inventory  should include, but is not   limited to, assumptions and limitations associated with the following:  •   risk factors used by the business in the pricing of transactions included in the scope of the IMA,  whose variability is not captured in IMA models;  •   any fixed parameters or constants de termined by expert judgement which are used in IMA  models;  •   calibration of models, including the selection of calibration instruments and the use of proxy  data;  •   use of re - pricing methods in models which are different to those used by the business (eg use of  simplified pricing approximations based on risk sensitivities, pricing grids, etc.); and  •   the methods by which historical risk factor movements are applied to current market data when  deriving modelled scenarios.  2.4B This analysis should be updated at lea st quarterly, or more frequently at the request of the PRA.  The measurement of these risks should capture the losses that could arise due to the risk factor(s) of  all products that are within the scope of the relevant internal model permission, but are not  adequately captured by the relevant internal models. This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   5  Identification of risk factors  2.5   The PRA expects firms to, on a quarterly basis, identify and assess individual risk factors covered  by the RNIM framework. The PRA will review the results of this exercise   and may require that firms  identify additional risk factors as being eligible for measurement.  Measurement of risk factors  2.6   Where sufficient data are available, and where it is appropriate to do so, the PRA expects   firms  to calculate an RNIM measure for ea ch material risk factor within scope of the framework in  accordance with Article 325bk of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part. The stressed  period for the RNIM measure should be consistent with that used for non - modellable risk factors in  t he same risk factor category.  2.6A The PRA expects that offsetting and diversification should not be recognised across risk factors  included in the RNIM framework. Subject to being granted a waiver by the PRA, a firm may be  permitted to recognise a degree   of offsetting or diversification across specific RNIMs, where the firm  is able to empirically justify that such recognition is prudent and appropriate.  2.7   If it is   not   appropriate to calculate an RNIM   metric for a material risk factor in accordance with  Arti cle 325bk of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part, a firm should instead measure  the size of the risk based on a stress test. The confidence level and capital horizon of the stress test  should be commensurate with the liquidity of the risk f actor, and should be at least as conservative  as comparable risk factors under the internal model approach. The RNIM measure should be at least  equal to the losses arising from the stress test.   Where quantitative models are used, these should be  reviewed b y a team independent from the model developer with a degree of rigour commensurate  with materiality of the RNIM.  2.7A   The PRA expects that RNIM own funds requirements should be calculated at quarter - end as the  average across the preceding three month perio d of an RNIM measure calculated at least monthly.  2.7B The PRA expects that firms should calculate the RNIM measure at least monthly for at least 90%  of RNIM requirements. The PRA expects firms to document the calculation frequency and materiality  (relati ve to total RNIM own funds requirements) of each RNIM.  2.7C The PRA expects firms to consider whether it is necessary for the RNIM measure to be  calculated more frequently than monthly calculation for more material or more variable RNIM  positions. Where a   firm identifies RNIMs that should be calculated more frequently than monthly,  the PRA expects that the RNIM position or risk sensitivity should be updated with that increased  frequency. The PRA does not expect a recalibration of the RNIM methodology more   frequently than  monthly.  Reporting of RNIV  [This sub - section has been deleted]  2.8   [Deleted]  2.9   [Deleted]  Extensions and   changes to the RNIM framework This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   6  2.10   The PRA expects firms to notify all model extensions and changes to the RNIM framework and  submit the   pro - forma available on the Capital Requirements Regulation permissions webpage . 1  2.11   The PRA expects to be pre -   notified for material extensions or changes to the RNIM framework  and to be notified following the occurrence of any other non - material extensions   or changes.  Interaction with back - testing,   profit & loss   attribution and total market risk own funds  requirements  2.12   The PRA considers that for the purposes of back - testing, firms should not include RNIMs in the  Value - at - Risk ( VaR )   measure calculated for back - testing.  2.13   The PRA considers that for the purposes of determining the theoretical changes in portfolio  value for the profit and loss attribution requirement in accordance with Article 325bg of the Market  Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part, firms may r ecognise changes relating to material RNIMs  that additional own funds are held against.  2.14   The PRA expects that the own funds add - ons for RNIMs should be added to own funds  requirement calculated in accordance with Article 325ba(3) of the Market Risk: Interna l Model  Approach (CRR) Part. The PRA expects that firms should continue to hold additional own funds  against material RNIMs that temporarily fail desk - level back - testing or P&L attribution and are  capitalised under the advanced standardised approach. Subje ct to PRA approval, a firm may be  permitted to cease holding additional own funds for material RNIMs relating to desks that are  temporarily capitalised under the advanced standardised approach, where the firm is able to  demonstrate that the advanced standa rdised approach explicitly and adequately capitalises for that  specific RNIM.  Simplified s tandardised approach for options  3.1   Firms that need to use own estimates of delta for the purposes of the simplified standardised  approach for options, should provide th e PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum  standards set out below for each type of option for which they calculate delta. Firms should only  provide this confirmation if they meet the minimum standards. Where a firm meets the minimum  standards, the y will be permitted to use own estimates of delta for the relevant option. Firms should  read the requirements for the granting of the permissions set out in Articles 329, 352, and 358   of the  Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part , as appr opriate, before applying for any of  these permissions.  3.2   If a   firm has a permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  with regard to a particular option type which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may  be applied and a rectification plan agreed. If a firm is unable to comply with the rectification plan  within the mandated time - frame, further supervisory measures may be taken. This may include  variation of permissions so that they are no longer allowed t o trade those particular types of option  for which they do not meet the minimum standards.  Minimum standards  3.3   The level of sophistication of the pricing models, which are used to calculate own estimates of  delta for use in the   simplified   standardised approa ch for options, should be proportionate to the  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/Authorisations/capital - requirements - regulation - permissions This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   7  complexity and risk of each option and the overall risk of the firm’s options trading business. In  general, it is considered that the risk of sold options will be higher than the risk of the same options  when   bought.  3.4   Delta should be recalculated at least daily. Firms should also recalculate delta promptly  following significant movements in the market parameters used as inputs to calculate delta.  3.5   The pricing model used to calculate delta should be:  •   based on appr opriate assumptions which have been assessed and challenged by suitably  qualified parties independent of the development process ;  •   independently tested, including validation of the mathematics, assumptions, and software  implementation; and  •   developed or appr oved independently of the trading desk.  3.6   A firm should use generally accepted industry standard pricing models for the calculation of own  deltas where these are available, such as for relatively simple options.  3.7   The IT systems used to calculate delta should   be sufficient to ensure that delta can be calculated  accurately and reliably.  3.8   Firms should have adequate systems and controls in place when using pricing models to  calculate deltas. This should include the following documented policies and procedures:  •   clea rly defined responsibilities of the various areas involved in the calculation;  •   frequency of independent testing of the accuracy of the model used to calculate delta; and  •   guidelines for the use of unobservable inputs, where relevant.  3.9   A firm should ensure it s risk management functions are aware of weaknesses of the model used  to calculate deltas. Where weaknesses are identified, the firm should ensure that estimates of delta  result in prudent capital requirements being held. The outcome should be prudent acro ss the whole  portfolio of options and underlying positions at a given time.  3A   Sensitivity   Models for Interest Rate Risk  3A.1 Firms intending to use sensitivity models to calculate the positions on derivative instruments  covered in Articles 328 to 330   of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   are  expected to demonstrate that they meet the requirements for granting of the relevant permission  by providing the PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum standards set out in  parag raphs 3A.3 to 3A.9 below. Where a firm meets the minimum standards, it will be permitted to  use sensitivity models to calculate the positions referred to in those Articles and may use them for  any bond which is amortised over its residual life rather than   via one final repayment of the  principal. Firms should read   CRR   Article 331 of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach  (CRR) Part   before applying for this permission. This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   8  3A.2 If a firm has permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  with regard to a particular position which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may be  applied and a rectification plan agreed. If a firm   is unable to comply with the rectification plan within  the mandated time - frame, further supervisory measures may be taken.  Minimum standards  3A.3 Firms should indicate the instruments for which net sensitivity positions are used and the  currencies in which   those positions are denominated. In addition, for the product scope requested  firms should:  •   confirm that the interest rate risk is managed on a discounted cash - flow basis; and  •   briefly indicate any growth plans for the exposures.  3A.4 Firms should confirm   that all models generate positions which have the same sensitivity to  interest rate changes as the underlying cash flows.  3A.5 The sensitivities should be assessed with reference to independent movement in sample rates  across the yield curve, with at leas t one sensitivity point in each of the maturity bands and  appropriate to produce accurate valuation changes based on the assumed interest rate changes as  set out in Table 2 in Article 339 of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   the  CRR .  3A.6 The sophistication of all pricing models used should:  •   be proportionate to the complexity and risk of the instruments and the nature of the business;  •   be based on appropriate assumptions that have been assessed and challenged by suitably  qualified   parties independent of the development process;  •   have been independently tested, including validation of the mathematics, assumptions, and  software implementation; and  •   have been developed or approved independently of the trading desk.  3A.7 The frequency of   independent testing of the accuracy of the pricing model and guidelines for  the use of unobservable inputs, where relevant, should be documented. The responsibilities of the  various areas involved in the calculation should be clearly defined and documented .  3A.8 Risk management functions should be aware of weaknesses in the model used to calculate  sensitivities to interest rate changes, and where weaknesses are identified a prudent amount of  additional capital should be held against the relevant exposures.  3A.9 Firms should confirm that sensitivities to interest rate changes can be recalculated promptly  following significant movements in inputs used to calculate sensitivities. IT systems used to calculate  sensitivities to interest rate changes should be suff icient to ensure that sensitivity positions can be  calculated accurately and reliably.  3B   Calculation of the overall net foreign exchange position This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   9  3B.1   Firms intending to exclude from the calculation of net open currency positions any positions  which are t aken in order to hedge against the adverse effect of the exchange rate on its ratios in  accordance with Article 92(1) of the Required Level of Own Funds (CRR) Part are expected to  demonstrate that they meet the requirements for granting of the relevant per mission by providing  the PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum standards set out in paragraphs 3B.3 - 3B.9  below. Firms should read Article   325a1 of the Market Risk: General Provisions (CRR) Part   before  applying for this permission.  3B.2 If a firm   has a permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  of a particular position which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may be applied and  a rectification plan agreed. If a firm is unable to comply with   the rectification plan within the  mandated time frame, further supervisory measures may be taken. This may include a variation of  permissions so that the firm is no longer allowed to exclude those hedging positions from the  calculation of net open currenc y positions for which it does not meet the minimum standards.  Minimum standards  3B.3 Firms should confirm that the structural foreign exchange (FX) positions are deliberately taken  in order to protect capital adequacy ratios against adverse movements in F X rates and are of a non -  trading or structural nature.  3B.4 Firms should confirm that mismatches resulting in an open position are avoided as far as  possible and that positions are accounted for so that capital ratios are protected.  3B.5 Firms should confi rm that they consider and avoid any residual risks arising from structural FX  positions as far as possible.  3B.6 Firms should confirm that policies and procedures are clearly articulated and are made  available to the board and to regulators on an annual ba sis. The structural FX hedging strategy  should be clearly articulated to investors and included in Pillar 3 disclosures.  3B.7 Firms should confirm that books containing structural FX positions are segregated from other  trading activities.  3B.8 Firms   should confirm that traders’ remuneration structures do not in any way incentivise the  structural FX positions becoming a profit centre.  3B.9 Oversight of the structural FX positions should be carried out by the appropriate committees of  the boards of both   the foreign entity and the group on at least a quarterly basis.  Netting a convertible with its underlying instrument  [This section has been deleted]  4.1   [Deleted]  Offsetting derivative instruments  5.1   CRR Article 331(2) states conditions that should be met befor e firms not using interest rate pre -  processing models can fully offset interest rate risk on derivative instruments. One of the conditions This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   10  is that the reference rate (for floating rate positions) or coupon (for fixed rate positions) should be  ‘closely matc hed’. The PRA would normally consider a difference of less than 15 basis points as  indicative of the reference rate or coupon being ‘closely matched’ for   the purposes of this Article. This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   11  5A   Corrections to modified duration for debt instruments under Article  340   of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part  5A.1   The PRA expects firms making corrections to the calculation of modified duration for debt  instruments, which are subject to prepayment risk under the second subparagraph of   Article 340(3)  of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, to apply one of the following:  (a)   The formula set out in paragraph 5A.2  (b)   The formula set out in paragraph 5A.3.  5A.2 For the purposes of paragraph 5A.1(a), firms should apply the f ollowing formula to correct the  Modified Duration and compute a Corrected Modified Duration (CMD):  𝐶𝑀𝐷   =   𝑀𝐷   ×   Φ   ×   Ω  where:  𝑀𝐷   =   modified duration as in Article 340(3) of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised  Approach (CRR) Part  Φ   =   𝐵  𝑃  Ω   =   1   +   Δ   +   1  2   ×   Γ   ×   𝑑 𝐵   +   Ψ  𝑃   =   price of the bond with embedded optionality  𝐵   =   theoretical price of the vanilla bond  Δ   =   delta of the embedded option  Γ   =   gamma of the embedded option  Ψ   =   where not considered in the calculation of   Δ   and   Γ , and where material, an   additional  factor for transaction costs and behavioural variables consistent with an Internal Rate of  Return (“IRR”) shift of 100 basis points (“b.p.”).  𝑑𝐵   =   change in value of the underlying  5A.3 For the purposes of paragraph 5A.1(b), firms should apply   the following formula to re - compute  directly a Corrected Modified Duration (‘CMD’) by re - pricing the instrument after a shift of 100 b.p.  in the IRR:  𝐶𝑀𝐷   =   𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   −   𝑃 + Δ 𝑟  2   ×   𝑃 0   ×   Δ r   +   Ψ  where:  𝑃 0   =   the current market price of the product This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   12  𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   =   theoretical price of the product after a negative IRR shock equal to   Δ 𝑟  𝑃 + Δ 𝑟   =   theoretical price of the produce after a positive IRR shock equal to   Δ 𝑟  Δ 𝑟   =   a hypothetical IRR change of 50 b.p.  Ψ   =   where not considered in the calculation of   𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   and   𝑃 + Δ 𝑟 , and where material, an  additional factor for transaction costs and behavioural variables consistent with an IRR shift  of 100 b.p.  5A.4 The computation of the additional factor   Ψ   need only be considered if material, and should not  lead to a shorter   𝐶 𝑀𝐷   than if it had not been considered in the calculation.  5A.5 For the purposes of assessing the additional factor   Ψ   in accordance with paragraph 5A.3, firms  should take into account each of the following:  (a)   that transaction costs reduce the value of the o ption, making the option unlikely to be  executed below the threshold established by the transaction costs; and  (b)   that there are behavioural factors suggesting that some clients, in particular retail clients,  may not always exercise an option, even when it is   in the money, in certain circumstances  including the following:  (i)   where the remaining principal is close to the initial amount lent, leading some  ‘aggressive’ borrowers to leave or refinance at an early stage; and  (ii)   in the case of borrowers with the largest l oan size who have the largest gain  from prepayment as the cost attached to prepayment is a fixed amount.  5A.6 The assessment of the additional factor   Ψ   should be based on historical data, obtained from a  firm’s own experience or from external sources. Data   on the behavioural factors referred to in  5A.5(b) may be obtained from the assessment of other balance sheet elements subject to  prepayment risk, such as those observed for retail clients in the non - trading book.  5A.7 Institutions should calibrate the ad ditional factor   Ψ   by assessing significant divergences  between the real behaviour historically observed for a type of client and the theoretical behaviour  that would have been envisaged for counterparties acting in a purely rational way.  5A.8 The calibrat ion of the additional factor   Ψ   , due to behavioural factors referred to in paragraph  5A.7, should be made where a relevant amount of these instruments with prepayment risk are held  in the trading book and especially where the counterparties are retail clie nts. Additional factors  should not be considered for the embedded options where the institution has the right to call for an  early termination of the instrument .  Exclusion of overshootings when determining multiplication factor  addends  6.1   The PRA’s starting assumption will be that all overshootings should be taken into account for the  purpose of the calculation of addends. If a firm believes that an overshooting should not count for This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   13  that purpose, then it should contact the PRA in order to o btain its agreement to exclude that  particular overshooting. The PRA will then decide whether to agree to such an exclusion.  6.2   One example of when a firm’s overshooting might properly be disregarded is when it has arisen  as a result of a risk that is not cap tured in its VaR model, but against which capital resources are  already held.  Derivation of notional   positions for   simplified   standardised approaches  Futures and forwards on a basket or index of debt securities  7.1   These should be converted into   forwards on single debt securities   as follows:  (1)   futures or forwards on a single currency basket or index of debt securities should be treated as  either:  (c)   a series of forwards, one for each of the constituent debt securities in the basket or index,  of an amou nt which is a proportionate part of the total underlying the contract according to  the weighting of the relevant debt security in the basket; or  (d)   a single forward on a notional debt security; and  (2)   futures or forwards on multiple currency baskets or indices o f debt securities should be treated  as either:  (a)   a series of forwards (using the method described in 1(a)); or  (b)   a series of forwards, each one on a notional debt security to represent one of the currencies  in the basket or index, of an amount which is a propo rtionate part of the total underlying  the contract according to the weighting of the relevant currency in the basket.  7.2   Notional debt securities derived through this treatment should be assigned a specific risk  position risk adjustment and a general market r isk position risk adjustment equal to the highest that  would apply to the debt securities in the basket or index.  7.3   The debt security with the highest specific risk position risk adjustment within the basket might  not be the same as the one with the highest   general market risk position risk adjustment. A firm  should select the highest percentages even where they relate to different debt securities in the  basket or index, and regardless of the proportion of those debt securities in the basket or index.  Bonds w here the coupons and principal are paid in different currencies  7.4   Where a debt security pays coupons in one currency, but will be redeemed in a different  currency, it should be treated as:  a debt security denominated in the coupon ’ s currency; and  a foreign c urrency forward to capture the fact that the debt security’s principal will be  repaid in a different currency from that in which it pays coupons, specifically:  (a)   a notional forward sale of the coupon currency and purchase of the redemption currency,  in the c ase of a long position in the debt security; or This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   14  (b)   a notional forward purchase of the coupon currency and sale of the redemption currency,  in the case of a short position in the debt security.  Interest rate risk on other futures, forwards and swaps  7.5   Other   futu res, forwards, and swaps where a treatment is not specified in Article 328 of the  Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   should be treated as positions in zero  specific risk securities, each of which:  has a zero coupon;  has a   maturity equal to that of the relevant contract; and  is long or short according to the following table:  I n s t r u m e n t   N o ti o n a l   p o s i t i o ns  F o r e i g n   cu r r e n c y  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re  A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n  den o mi n a t e d   i n   t h e  c u r ren c y   p u rc h a s e d  a n d   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n  den o mi n a t e d   i n   t h e  c u r ren c y   s o l d .  G o ld   f o rw a rd   A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re   i n v o lves  an   a c t u al   ( o r   n o t i o n al)  s ale   o f g o ld  o r   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re   i n v o lves  an   a c t u al   ( o r   n o t i o n al)  pu rc h a s e   o f g o l d .  E qu ity   f o rw a rd   A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  co n t r a c t   in v o lves   an  a c t u al( o r   n o t i o n al) sa l e   o f  t h e   u nde r lyi n g   e q u ity  o r   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  co n t r a c t   o r   f u t u re  i n v o lves   an   a c t u al   ( o r  n o t i o n al) p u rc h a s e   o f t h e  un d e r l yi n g   e q u ity.  Deferred start interest rate swaps or foreign   currency swaps  7.6   Interest rate swaps or foreign currency swaps with a deferred start should be treated as two  notional positions (one long, one short). The paying leg should be treated as a short position in a  zero specific risk security with a coupon equal   to the fixed rate of the swap. The receiving leg should  be treated as a long position in a zero specific risk security, which also has a coupon equal to the  fixed rate of the swap. This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   15  7.7   The maturities of the notional positions are shown in the following table :  Paying leg   R eceiving leg  Receiving fixed and paying floating   The maturity equals the start date of  the swap.  The maturity equals the maturity of  the swap.  Paying fixed and receiving floating   The maturity equals the maturity of the  swap.  The maturity equals the start date  of the swap.  Swaps where only one leg is an interest rate leg  7.8   For the purposes of interest rate risk, a firm should treat a swap (such as an equity swap) with  only one in terest rate leg as a notional position in a zero - specific - risk security:  (a)   with a coupon equal to that on the interest rate leg;  (b)   with a maturity equal to the date that the interest rate will be reset; and  (c)   which is a long position if the firm is receiving int erest payments and short if making interest  payments.  Foreign exchange forwards, futures and CFDs  7.9   A firm should treat a foreign currency forward, future, or Contracts for Difference (CFDs) as two  notional currency positions as follows:  (a)   a long notional posi tion in the currency which the firm has contracted to buy; and  (b)   a short notional position in the currency which the firm has contracted to sell.  7.10   The notional positions should have a value equal to either:  (c)   the contracted amount of each currency to be exchang ed in the case of a forward, future, or CFD  held in the non - trading book; or  (d)   the present value of the amount of each currency to be exchanged in the case of a forward,  future, or CFD held in the trading book.  Foreign currency swaps  7.11   A firm should treat a   foreign currency swap as:  (e)   a long notional position in the currency in which the firm has contracted to receive interest and  principal; and  (f)   a short notional position in the currency in which the firm has contracted to pay interest and  principal.  7.12   The notiona l positions should have a value equal to either:  (g)   the nominal amount of each currency underlying the swap if it is held in the non - trading book;  or This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   16  (h)   the present value amount of all cash flows in the relevant currency in the case of a swap held in  the trading   book.  Futures, forwards, and CFDs on a single commodity  7.13   Where a forward, future or CFD settles according to:  (1)   the difference between the price set on trade date and that prevailing at contract expiry, then  the notional position should:  (a)   equal the total quan tity underlying the contract; and  (b)   have a maturity equal to the expiry date of the contract; and  (i)   the difference between the price set on trade date and the average of prices prevailing  over a certain period up to contract expiry, then a notional position sh ould be derived  for each of the reference dates used in the averaging period to calculate the average  price, which:  (a)   equals a fractional share of the total quantity underlying the contract; and  (b)   has a maturity equal to the relevant reference date.  Buying or   selling a single commodity at an average of spot prices prevailing in the future  7.14   Commitments to buy or sell at the average spot price of the commodity prevailing over some  period between trade date and maturity should be treated as a combination of:  (1)   a posi tion equal to the full amount underlying the contract with a maturity equal to the maturity  date of the contract, which should be:  (a)   long, where the firm will buy at the average price; or  (b)   short, where the firm will sell at the average price; and  (2)   a   series of notional positions, one for each of the reference dates where the contract price  remains unfixed, each of which should:  (a)   be long if the position under (1) is short, or short if the position under (1) is long;  (b)   equal to a fractional share of the t otal quantity underlying the contract; and  (c)   have a maturity date of the relevant reference date.  Qualifying debt instruments  8.1   Article   336(4)(a) of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   states that  positions listed on a stock exchange i n a third country, where the exchange is recognised by the  competent authorities, qualify for the specific risk own funds requirements in the second row of the  table in Article 336 of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part . This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   17  8.2   For the pu rposes of this rule, the PRA recognises the following stock exchanges in third  countries:  •   Australian Securities Exchange Limited.  •   Bermuda Stock Exchange.  •   Bolsa Mexicana de Valores.  •   Bourse de Montreal Inc.  •   Channel Islands Stock Exchange.  •   Chicago Board Optio ns Exchange.  •   Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT).  •   Chicago Stock Exchange.  •   Dubai Financial Market.  •   EUREX (Zurich).  •   Euronext Amsterdam Commodities Market.  •   Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited.  •   ICE Futures US, Inc.  •   Indonesia Stock Exchange.  •   Johannesburg Stock E xchange.  •   Kansas City Board of Trade.  •   Korea Exchange.  •   Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange.  •   Minneapolis Grain Exchange.  •   NASDAQ OMX PHLX.  •   National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (NASDAQ).  •   National Stock Exchange India.  •   New York Stock   Exchange.  •   New York Mercantile Exchange Inc (NYMEX Inc.). This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   18  •   New Zealand Exchange.  •   NYSE Liffe US.  •   NYSE MKT.  •   Osaka Securities Exchange.  •   Shanghai Stock Exchange.  •   Singapore Exchange.  •   SIX Swiss Exchange AG.  •   South African Futures Exchange.  •   Stock Exchange of Mumbai.  •   Stock Exchange of Thailand.  •   Taiwan Stock Exchange.  •   The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).  •   Tokyo Financial Exchange.  •   Tokyo Stock Exchange.  •   Toronto Stock Exchange.  Expectations relating to internal models  9.1   Artic l e   325az of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model App roach (CRR) Part   s t a t e s   that   p er m iss i o n   f o r  an i n st i tuti o n   t o   u s e   i n t e r n al   m o d els   t o   calc u late   ca p ital   is su b j e ct   t o   c o m p et ent auth o rities   v erifying  c o m p lia n ce   with :  •   requirements on risk measurement;  •   qualitative requirements; and  •   requirements on   internal validation .  9.2   The   stan d ar d s   that   t h e   P RA   e xpe c ts   t o   b e   m et   t o   c o n s i d er   that an   instit u t i o n   is   c o m p lia n t with  t h e s e   r eq u ire m ents   a r e   set   o u t   b e l o w .  Hi g h - l e v e l   st a n d a rds  9.3   A f i rm   s h o u ld   be   a b l e   t o   d e mo n s tra t e   that   it   m e e t s   the risk   m a n a g e m ent s t a nd ar d s s e t   o u t   in  Article 325bi of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   o n   a   leg a l enti t y   and   b u si n ess This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   19  li n e   b asis whe r e   a pp r o p ri a t e .   This is   p artic u la r ly   i m p o r tant   f o r a   su b si d ia r y   u nd ert a ki n g   i n   a   gr o u p  su b je c t   t o   m atr i x   m a n a g e m e n t,   where   the b u si n ess   li n es   cut ac r o ss   l egal   e n ti t y   b o und ar i es .  C a te g o ri e s   of   p o s i tion  9.4   [Deleted]  Data standards  [This sub - section has been deleted]  9.5   [Deleted]  9.6   [Deleted]  9.7   [Deleted]  Risk Factor Modelling  9.7A   As part of validating the close   relationship between a risk factor and a verifiable price, t he PRA  expects a firm seeking to map a verifiable price to more than one risk factor in accordance with  Article 325be(7)   of the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   to   have   performed a  quantitative   assess ment demonstrating   that the verifiable price has a material dependence on each  of the risk factors.  9.7B A firm should include all of its modellable risk factors in the set of modellable risk factors  referred to in Paragraph 4 of   Article   325bc of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part.  The firm may   choose to exclude some of those risk factors from the subset of modellable risk factors  referred to in paragraph 2 of the same Article ( e.g.   where those risk factors did not exist   in the  historical period of stress). Where a firm map s   those excluded risk factors to another risk factor that  is included for complying with the requirement in   Article 325bh(12) of   the   Market Risk: Internal  Model Approach (CRR) Part ,   the PRA expects   a   firm to   ensure such mapping approach remains  prudent and   include   evidence to demonstrate this in its documentation.  9.7C Article 325bc(3) of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part requires firms to  calculate partial expected shortfall measures based on the same subset of modellable risk factors  that   the firm uses to calculate the corresponding measures referred to in Paragraph 2 of that Article.  The PRA expects a firm to use the same modelling approach when calculating the two partial  expected shortfall measures, with very limited exceptions. T o the   extent that a firm deviate s   from  applying the same modelling   approach,   it   should clearly   document   the basis for   the deviation .  Aggregating Expected Shortfall (ES) measures  9.8   [Deleted]  9.9   The   P RA   do es   n o t   e x p e c t   a   fi r m   t o   u s e   the   sq u are   r o o t   o f   the s u m   o f   t h e   sq u ares   a pp r o ach   when  a gg reg a ti n g   m e a su r e s acr o ss or within risk   ca t eg o r i es   u n le s s   t h e ass u m p t i o n   o f ze r o   c o rrel a ti o n  b e t w e en th e se   c at e g o ries is   e m p ir i cal l y   ju s tified.   If c o r r elat i o n s   b e t w e en risk   ca t eg o r i es   a r e   n o t  e m p ir i cally   justifi e d ,   t h e   ES   m easu r es   f o r   each   cat e g o ry should   be   a dd ed in   o r d er   to   d e t e r m i n e   its  a gg r egate   ES   m easu r e. H o w ev er,   t o   t h e e x t e n t   t h at   a   fi r m ’s ES   m od el per m i ssi o n p r o v i d es   f o r   a  d if f erent   w a y   o f ag g reg a ti n g   ES   m easu r es: This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   20  that   method   ap p lies   i n s t e a d ;   a nd  if the   c o rrel a ti o n s   be t w e en   risk   c a t e g o ries u s ed f o r t h at   pu r p o se   ce a se   t o   b e   e mp ir i cally  j u stified   t h en   the fi r m   m u st   n o ti f y   t h e   ap p r o p ri a t e   re g u lat o r   a t   o n ce .  Testing prior to model validation  9.10   A firm is expected to provide evidence of its ability to comply with the   requirements   for an ES  model permission. In general, it will be required to demonstrate this by having a back -   testing  programme in place and should provide three months of back - testi ng history.  9.11   A   period   of initial monitoring or live testing is required before an ES model can be recognised.  This will be agreed on a firm by firm basis.  9.12   In assessing the firm’s   ES   model and risk management, the results of internal model validation  procedu res used by the firm to assess the   ES   model will be taken into account .  B a ck - t e s tin g  9.13   For clari t y ,   the ba c k - t e s ti n g   r e qu ir e m ents   o f   A r tic l e   325bf of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model  Approach (CRR) Part   sh o u ld   be   i m p l e m en t ed as   f o ll o ws:  •   If the day on which a loss is made is day n, the value - at - risk measure for that day will be  calculated on day n - 1, or overnight between day n - 1 and day n. Profit and loss figures are  produced on day n+1, and back - testing also takes place on day n+1. The fi rm’s supervisor should  be notified of any legal entity - level overshootings by close of business on day n+2.  •   Any overshooting initially counts for the purpose of the calculation of the plus factor even if  subsequently the PRA agrees to exclude it. Thus, whe re the firm experiences an overshooting  and already has four or more overshootings for the previous 250 business days, changes to the  multiplication factor arising from changes to the plus factor become effective at day n+3.  9.14   A lo ng er   ti m e   p er i o d   i m p r o v es   the   p o w er   o f   b ac k - t e s ti ng .   H o w e v er   a   l ong er ti m e   per i o d   m ay  n o t   b e   d e sira b le if   t h e   ES   m o d el   o r   m ar k et   c o nd it i o n s ha v e   c h a ng ed to the e x t e n t   t h at   hist o r i cal d a ta  are   n o   l o ng er   r e l e v a n t.  9.15   The   P RA will   r e v ie w , as   p a r t   o f   a   fi r m ’s ES   mo d el   pe r m iss i o n ap p l i cat i o n ,   t h e   p r o ce s ses a n d  d o cu m entat i o n   r e l a ti n g   t o   the der i v at i o n   o f p r o fit   and   l o ss u s e d   f o r bac k - t e s t i ng . A fi r m ’s  d o cu m entat i o n   s h o u ld   cle a rly s e t   o u t   the   bas i s   f o r c le a n i n g   profit and   l o ss.   T o   the   e x t e n t   that   cer t ain  p r o fit and   l o ss   el e m ents   are   n o t   upd at e d   e v ery   day   ( f o r   e x a m p le   c ertain   r es e r v e calc u lati o n s)   t h e  d o c u m en t ati o n   s h o u ld   clea r l y   s et   o u t   h o w   such   e l e m ents   a r e   i n c l ud ed in   t h e   p r o fit and   l o ss   s eries .  Date   of application   of consequences of model tests  9. 15 A T he   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part requires firms to undertake a number of  tests on a quarterly basis, and sets out that the results of these tests should be assessed as at the  quarterly reporting reference date. The PRA expects firms to refle ct any consequences from these  tests in the quarter immediately following the quarterly reporting reference date. For example, the  consequence of failing the profit and loss attribution test (PLAT) as at 31 March should be reflected  in the quarter beginnin g 1 April and ending 30 June  Plan n e d   e x t e n s i o n s   a n d   c h a n ge s   to   t h e   I n te rn a l   M o d e l   A p pr oa c h   m o d e l This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   21  9.16   In acc o r d a n c e   w i th Ar t icle   325az x   of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part ,  t h e   P RA   e x p ec t s a   fi r m   t o   p r ov i d e   to   -   and   dis c u ss   w ith   -   the   P RA   d e t ai l s of   any   si gn if i ca n t   p la nn ed  cha ng es   to   t h e   I n t e r n al   Mo d el A pp r o a c h   m o d el   b ef o re   t ho se   ch ang e s are   i m p l e m en t ed.   T h e s e  m u st   i n cl ud e   d e t ai l ed i n f o r m at i o n   abo u t   t h e   n atu r e   o f   t h e   ch ang e,   i n cl u d i n g   an es t i m ate   o f   t h e  i mp act   o n   ca p ital   r eq u ire m e n t s .   F o r the a v o i d a n ce   o f   d o ub t,   t h e   ass e ss m ents   o f   m a t e ri a li t y   t h at  det e r m i n e   w h e ther   a   m o d el ch ang e   is an   ap p licat i o n , p r e - n o tific a ti o n   o r   p o s t - n o tif i cati o n   s h o u ld  be   carr i ed   o u t   wit h o u t i n c o r p o r a ti n g   ca p ital   r eq u ire m ents   f r o m   t h e   RNIM   fr a m e w o r k. See   C h a p t e r  2   f o r   the pr o ce s s ar o un d   e x t e n s i o n s and   c h a ng es   to   t h e   RNIM   fr a m e w o r k.   T h e   p r o - f o r m a   can   be  f oun d   o n   t h e Ba n k’s   w ebsite   at  w w w.b a n k o fen g la nd .c o . u k / p r a /P a g es / a u t h o risat i o n s / crr / a pp lyin g .as p x .  Ten - day VaR and sVaR calculation  [This sub - section has been deleted]  9.17   [Deleted]  9.18   [Deleted]  Accuracy of approximate revaluation approaches  9.19   Related to the expectations in paragraph 2.4A, firms   should perform periodic monitoring to  demonstrate the accuracy of any approximate revaluation approaches used within its model (eg  for firms using sensitivities, revaluation ladders, or spot/vol - matrices ), with a particular emphasis  on   ES   suitability. This should include a review of any ladders/matrices to ensure that they are  extended to accommodate wider shocks associated with the firm’s selected 1 - year   stress   period  for ES calculation. The   frequency of the monitoring should be commensurate to the accuracy of  the firm’s approximate revaluation approach and the materiality of the risks covered .  Internal default risk model  9.19A As part of the internal default risk model requirement as set out   in   Article 325bp of the  Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part, firms   are required to model default risk using two  types of systematic risk factors. Firms’   internal default risk model shall also reflect/incorporate the  economic cycle appropriately . In order to meet both these requirements without compromising the  risk sensitivity of the model, the PRA considers that firms may reflect the economic cycle differently  than through the chosen systematic factors, provided it can be shown that this is equ ivalent to a 2 -  factor model where the economic cycle is absorbed into the chosen systematic risk factors (eg  region and sector).  Trading locations  9.20   [Deleted]  Ab s o lu te   a n d   r e l a t i ve   s h if ts  [This sub - section has moved from paragraphs 10.5 and 10.6]  9.21   The   P RA   e xpects   fi r m s   t o   be able to justify on an ongoing basis   t h e   rat i o n ale   f o r   t h e   choice   o f  risk factor shift methodologies (eg absolute or relative shifts). In   part i cu l ar,   the consistency of the  assumed risk factor dynamics with those observed in practice should   be   e v i d e n ced f o r   ES   as a part  of the firm’s periodic model validation.  9.22   The   f o ll o wing   in f o r m at i o n   i s   e xp e ct e d   to   be   su b m it t ed   q u arterl y : This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   22  •   analysis to support the equivalence of the firm’s current approach to   an   ES   maximising approach  on an ongoing basis;  •   the rationale behind the selection of key major risk factors used to find the period of significant  financial stress (where relevant);   and  •   summary of ongoing internal monitoring of stressed period selection with respect to current  portfolio .  Stressed VaR calculation  [This section has been deleted]  10.1   [Deleted]  Qu a n tile   est i ma t o r  [This sub - section has been deleted]  10.2   [Deleted]  Mea n i ng of   ‘ p e ri o d   o f   s ig n ifi ca n t   f i n a n c i a l   s t r e ss   r e l e v a nt   to t h e   i ns t i t uti o n’s po r t f o l i o’  [This sub - section has been deleted]  10.3   [Deleted]  10.3A   [Deleted]  Antithetic data  [This sub - section has been deleted]  10.4   [Deleted]  Ab s o lu te   a n d   r e l a t i ve   s h if ts  [This   sub - section has moved to chapter 9]  10.5   [Moved   to Chapter 9 ]  10.6   [Moved to Chapter 9]  Requirement to have an internal IRC model  [This section has been deleted]  11.1   [Deleted]  11.2   [Deleted]  B a s i s   r i sks   f or   m i g r a t i o n  [This sub - section has been deleted] This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   23  11.3   [Deleted]  Pr i ce/sp r ea d   c h a n g e   m o d e l  [This sub - section has been deleted]  11.4   [Deleted]  D e p e nd e n ce   of t h e   r e c o v e r y   r a te on   t h e   e c o n omic   cyc l e  [This sub - section has been deleted]  11.5   [Deleted]  Annual SMF attestation of market risk internal models  12.1   The   P RA   e xpects   an a pp r o p ri a te   in d ivid u al in   a   SMF   r o le   t o   p r ov i d e   t o   t h e   P RA   o n   an   a nnu al  b asis writ t en a t t e st at i o n   t h at   the fi r m ’s   inter n al   a pp r o ac h es f o r w h ich   it   h as   re c ei v ed   a   p er m iss i o n  c o m p ly   with   t h e   req u ir e m en t s in   the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part of   the PRA  Rulebook , and   any   ap p lica b le   m arket   r i sk   su p e r v i s o ry   s t a te m ents.  12.2   F i r m s   s h o u ld   ag r ee   t h e   a pp r o p ri a te   SMF   f o r   pr o v i d i n g   t h is at t e s tat i o n   w i th the   P R A,   n o ti n g  that   t h e   P RA   w o u ld   n o t   e x p ect   t o   ag r ee   m o re   than   2   SMFs   to c o v er   all   t h e   fir m ’ s   m ar k et   ri s k  i n t e r n al   m o d els   as   d e scri b e d   in   the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part .  12.3   Where a firm is unable to provide an attestation under paragraph 12.1 or at any time has  ceased to comply with the requirements in the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approac h (CRR) Part ,  then the firm is expected to notify the PRA of that fact pursuant to Fundamental Rule 7 of the PRA  Rulebook for CRR firms and to do one of the following:  •   present the PRA with a credible plan for a timely return to compliance; or  •   demonstrat e to the satisfaction of the PRA that the effect of non - compliance is immaterial .  Alternative definitions of sensitivities   in the advanced standardised  approach  13.1   In assessing a firm’s application   for permission   to use alternative definitions of sensitivities for  calculating the own funds requirements of a trading book position under   Article 325t(5) of the  Market Risk: Advanced Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, the PRA expects firms to :  •   provide justification that   the resulting sensitivities are appropriate for calculating the own  funds requirements of a trading book position ; and  •   document the circumstances or scenarios under which the results of the alternative  definitions of sensitivities might materially differ   from those in the   PRA rulebook . Firms  should have an appropriate process to ensure that if and when those scenarios occur, the  resulting sensitivity - based method calculation does not understate risk (when compared to  the use of the standard definitions). F irms should periodically update this analysis. This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   24  Appendi x   –   SS13/13 updates  This appendix outlines changes made to SS13/13 since its publication in PS10/14 ‘Responses to  CP12/14’ in October 2014. 1  December 2023  This SS was updated following   publication of PS 17 /23 ‘ Implementation of the Basel 3.1 standards ’ 2  to:  set out the PRA’s expectations on the updated Risk not in models (RNIM) framework, which  replaces the RNIV framework in Section 2  remove the expectations around netting of a converti ble with its underlying instrument in  Section 4.  set out directly the PRA’s expectations for making   corrections to modified duration for debt  instruments in Section 5A.  replace references to VaR and sVaR with references to ES to reflect the new IMA framew ork;  clarify the PRA’s expectations on the frequency of application for the modelling tests set out  under the IMA framework in paragraph 9.3A;  remove expectations around VaR model permissions and VaR data standards in para 9.4   -  9.7 and 9.20.  set out the   PRA’s expectations when modelling the risk factors under the IMA framework in  paragraphs 9.7A, 9.7B and 9.7C;  remove the expectations on VaR measures in paragraphs 9.8, 9.17, 9.18, 10.1   –   11.5.  set out the PRA’s expectations on how should reflect the econo mic cycle in their internal  default risk model under the IMA framework in paragraph 9.19A;  clarify the PRA’s expectations on the requirements for using alternative definitions of  sensitivities under advanced standardised approach in Section 14;  These amend ments are effective from 1 July 2025.  November 2020  This SS was updated following publication of   PS23/20   ‘Market risk: Calculation of risks not in value at  risk, and stressed value at risk’ 3   to:  1   Policy Statement | PS10/14 (bankofengland.co.uk) .  2   December 2023:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2023/december/implementation - of - the - Basel - 3 - 1 -  standards - near - final - 1 - part - 1 - policy - statement .  3   November 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co. uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/market - risk - rniv - svar . This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   25  set the PRA’s expectations on the frequency of calculation of RNIV; and  clarify the PRA’s expectations on the observation period that should be considered for  iden tifying a firm’s sVaR stress period.  March 2018  This SS was updated following publication of PS6/18 ‘Responses to OCP 18/17’. 1   Specifically, the  amendment clarifies   the PRA’s expectations on the application of the EBA’s Guidelines on  corrections to modified duration for debt instruments.   SS13/13   has been amended with an insertion  of paragraph 5A and 5A.1   to   state   that UK firms should comply with the EBA Guidelines wh en  making calculations under   CRR   Art icle   340.  February 2017  This SS was updated following publication of PS4/17   ‘Responses to CP36/16 and correction to  PS2/16 PIN rules’ , 2   specifically :  (i)   the expectation in   paragraph   6.1   has been   amended   to reflect   that, w here a firm believes that  an ‘overshooting’ should not be taken into account for the purpose of the calculation of  addends, it contacts the PRA to obtain its agreement;  (ii)   paragraphs 9.17, 9.18 and 10.5 amended to clarify   that the analysis referred to in the se  paragraphs should be undertaken as a part of firms’ periodic validation, as opposed to a one off  or quarterly analysis;  (iii)   paragraph 9.19   has been   added stating the PRA’s expectation on the monitoring firms should  undertake to demonstrate the accuracy of   any approximate revaluation approaches used within  its model;  (iv)   paragraph 9.20   has been   added to provide the PRA’s definition of what constitutes a ‘trading  location’ when applying for IMA approval; and  (v)   the PRA’s expectations in 10.6   have been updated regard ing   the information that IMA firms  should   submit quarterly, namely:  (a)   removing the expectation of a quarterly capital equivalence analysis of up - scaled one - day  VaR and sVaR , which is now included in 9.18 (and to be addressed through periodic model  validation);  (b)   removing the expectation that firms submit a graphed history of the sVaR/VaR ratio, which  the PRA proposes to include as reporting requirement in firms’ IMA permissio ns, where  required;  (c)   removing the expectation that firms submit risk committee minutes or other evidence to  reflect governance and senior management oversight of the sVaR methodology ;  (d)   removing the expectation that firms submit analysis to   demonstrate the accuracy of partial  revaluation approaches (since this is now covered in paragraph 9.19); and  (e)   adding the   expectation that the firm reports its   ten   day 99% standalone VaR and sVaR by  asset class, which is intended to enhance the proportional ity of the supervisi on of firms’  IMA risk exposures.  1   https://www.bankofe ngland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/responses - to - cp - 18 - 17 - chapters - 2 - to - 6 - 9 - and - 10 .  2   February 2017:   Responses to CP36/16 and correction to PS2/16 PIN rules   -   PS4/17 (bankofengland.co.uk) . This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded

Market risk   December 2023   26  J u ly   2 0 1 6  T h is supervisory   st at e m ent   was   upd a t ed 1   t o:  (i)   a m end   t h e   e xpect a ti o n s   o n   the   v al id a ti o n   o f fi r m s’ Ri s ks   n o t   in   V a R   ( R N I V )   fram e w o rks and  r ep o r ti n g   o f   e x t ensions and   ch ang es   t o   fi r m s’ R N IV   fra m e w o rks (paragraphs 2.2 and 2.10 -  2.12);  (ii)   pro v i d e   clar i f i cat i o n   o n   t h e   P RA’s re p o rti n g   r eq u ire m ents   a r o un d I n t e r n al   M o d el A pp r o ach  ( I M A)   mo d el c h a ng es   and   e x t e n si o n s (paragraph 9.16);  (iii)   clarify the   p r o ce s s   f o r i n f o r m i n g   t h e   P RA   with re g ard   t o   n on - c om p lia n c e   h as   b e e n   cla r if i ed  (paragraph 9.16 , 12.1 and 12.3); and  (iv)   br in g   a t t e n t i o n   t o   t h e   P RA’s   e x p e c tat i on s f o r fi r m s a pp lying   f o r:  (a)   t h e   u s e   o f   o w n   e st i m at e s   o f delta   in the   stan d ar d ised a pp r o a ch f o r   o p ti o n s ;   and  (b)   t h e   u se   o f   s e n sit i v i t y   mo d els   u nd er   CRR   A r ticle   3 3 1;   and  (c)   the   e x cl u si o n   o f   p o sit i o n s   f r o m   t h e   calc u lat i o n   o f net   o p en cur r ency   p o sit i o n s u n d er   CRR  A r ticle   3 5 2 ( 2).  (Amendments to paragraphs   3 .1,   3 . 2 , a n d   Cha p t e rs   3 A a n d   3 B).  October 2014  This statement was updated   following publication of   Policy Statement 10/14 ‘Responses to  CP12/14’, 2   to provide the PRA’s expectations on the reporting of   risks not in VaR (RNIV)   in FSA005  (new paragraphs 2.8 and 2.9).  1   July 2016:   Market Risk   -   SS13/13 UPDATE (bankofengland.co.uk) .  2   October 2014 :   Supervisory Statement | SS13/13 Update (bankofengland.co.uk) . This near-final SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2013/market-risk-ss Superseded


