---
title: "SS1313/ – Ss1313 January 2026 Interim Update"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2026/ss1313-january-2026-interim-update.pdf"
---

# SS1313/ – Ss1313 January 2026 Interim Update

Supervisory Statement | SS13/13  Market risk  January   202 6  (Updating November 2020) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Supervisory Statement   |   SS13/13  Market risk  J anuary   202 6  (Updating   November 2020 ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Contents  1   Introduction   3  2   Mat eri al   deficiencies in risk capture by an institution’s internal approach   3  3   Simplified standardised approach for options   6  3A   Sensitivity Models for Interest Rate Risk   7  3B   Calculation of the overall net foreign exchange position   8  4   Netting a convertible with its underlying instrument   10  5   Offsetting derivative instruments   10  5A   Corrections to modified duration for debt instruments under Article 340 of the  Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   11  6   Exclusion of overshootings when determining multiplication factor addends   12  7   Derivation of notional positions for simplified standardised approaches   13  8   Qualifying debt instruments   16  9   Expectations relating to internal models   16  10   Stressed VaR calculation   20  11   Requirement to have an internal IRC model   21  12   Annual SMF attestation of market risk internal models   22  13   Alternative definitions of sensitivities in the advanced standardised approach   22  14   Determination of the value of a CIU and its underlying investments for the purpose  of Articles 104(2)(f), 104(2)(h), and 325j(1)(a)   23 This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

3   Market risk   J anuary   202 6  Introduction  1.1   This s up er v i s o r y   s t a t e m ent is ai m ed at   Capital Requirements Regulation ( CRR )   firms and CRR  consolidation entities . 1   This version of the supervisory statement applies during the   IMA transitional  period , as defined in the Glossary of the PRA Rulebook .  1.2   It sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations of firms in relation   to  market risk and should be considered in addition to requirements set out in the Trading Book (CRR),  Market Risk: General Provisions (CRR), Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR), Market  Risk: Advanced Standardised Approach (CRR) and Market Ri sk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Parts  of the PRA Rulebook and the high - level expectations outlined in ‘The PRA’s approach to banking  supervision’. 2  1.3   This statement details the PRA’s expectations with regard to the following:  •   Material deficiencies in risk capture by an institution’s internal approach .  •   Simplified standardised approach for options .  •   Offsetting derivative instruments .  •   Corrections to modified duration for debt instruments subject to prepayment risk .  •   Exclusion of back - testing exceptions when determining multiplication factor addends .  •   Derivation of notional positions for   simplified   standardised approaches .  •   Qualifying debt instruments .  •   Expectations relating to internal models .  •   Value - at - Risk (VaR) and stressed VaR (sVaR)calculation.  •   Requirement to have an internal   incremental   risk charge ( IRC ) model .  •   Annual   Senior Management Function (SMF)   attestation of market risk internal models .  •   Alternative definitions of sensitivities   in the advanced standardised approach .  •   Determination of the value of a CIU and its underlying investments for the purpose of Articles  104(2)(f), 104(2)(h), and 325j(1)(a).  Mat e r i al   de f ic i e nc i es   in   r i s k   c a p t u r e by   an   i n sti t u t io n ’ s inte r n a l  a p p r o a ch  2.1   This chapter sets out the PRA’s requirements for the calculation of additional own funds for the  purposes of   Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model   Approach (CRR) Part , which applies  1   On 23 February 2017, this SS was updated   –   see   a ppendix for full details.  2   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/supervision/approach/default.aspx . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   4  where a firm has permission to calculate own funds requirements for one or more categories of  market risk under   Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part . It  requires firms to identify any risks which are not adequately captured by those models and to hold  additional own funds against those risks. The methodology for the identification of those risks and  the calculation of those additional own funds for Va R and sVaR models is referred to as the ‘RNIV  framework’ .  2.2   Firms are responsible for identifying these additional risks, and this should be seen as an  opportunity for risk managers and management to better understand the shortcomings of the firm’s  models. Firms are expected to validate the appropriateness of the R NIV framework .  Scope of the Risks not in   VAR   ( RNIV ) framework  2.3   The   RNIV framework is intended to ensure that own funds are held to meet all risks which are  not captured, or not captured adequately, by the firm’s VaR and sVaR models. These include, but are  not limited to, missing and/or illiquid risk factors such as cross - risks, basis risks, higher - order risks,  and calibration parameters. The RNIV framework is also intended to cover event risks that could  adversely affect the relevant business .  Identification and measurement framework  2.4   The   PRA expects firms to systematically identify and measure all non - captured or poorly  captured risks. This analysis should be updated at least quarterly, or more frequently at the request  of the PRA. The measurement of these risks should capture the losses   that could arise due to the risk  factor(s) of all products that are within the scope of the relevant internal model permission, but are  not adequately captured by the relevant internal models .  Identification of risk factors  2.5   The   PRA expects firms to, on a quarterly basis, identify and assess individual risk factors covered  by the RNIV framework. The PRA will review the results of this exercise and may require that firms  identify additional risk factors as being eligible for measu rement .  Measurement of risk factors  2.6   Where   sufficient data are available, and where it is appropriate to do so, the PRA expects firms  to calculate a VaR and sVaR metric as the RNIV measure for each risk factor within scope of the  framework. The stressed period for the RNIV sVaR should be consisten t with that used for sVAR. No  offsetting or diversification may be recognised across risk factors included in the RNIV framework .  2.7   If   it is not appropriate to calculate a VaR and sVaR metric for a risk factor, a firm should instead  measure the size of the risk based on a stress test. The confidence level and capital horizon of the  stress test should be commensurate with the liquidity of   the risk factor, and should be at least as  conservative as comparable risk factors under the internal model approach. The RNIV measure  should be at least equal to the losses arising from the stress test .  2.7A   The PRA expects that RNIV own funds requirements should generally be calculated at quarter -  end as the average across the preceding three month period of an RNIV measure calculated at least  monthly. For each RNIV measure calculated from VaR and sVaR metrics , the multipliers used for VaR  and sVaR should be applied to the aforementioned average to determine the RNIV own funds  requirement . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   5  2.7B   The PRA expects that firms should calculate the RNIV measure at least monthly for at least 90%  of RNIV requirements. The PRA expects firms to document the calculation frequency and materiality  (relative to total RNIV own funds requirements) of each RNIV .  2.7C   The PRA expects firms to consider whether it is necessary for the RNIV measure to be  calculated more frequently than monthly calculation for more material or more variable RNIV  positions. Where a firm identifies RNIVs that should be calculated more frequen tly than monthly,  the PRA expects that the RNIV position or risk sensitivity should be updated with that increased  frequency. The PRA does not generally expect a recalibration of the RNIV methodology more  frequently than monthly .  Reporting of RNIV  2.8   Firms that are required to compute RNIV should complete FSA005   —   in addition to the MRK IM  COREP reporting template   —   for the relevant rows. When submitting FSA005, firms are advised to  complete the fields as follows :  •   populate the table under element 63, filling in both fields in each row;  •   element 64 should be the total of all values entered in 63 column B; and  •   in order for the form to validate, the value entered in 64 should also be entered in 61 and 62.  2.9   Firms that are required to compute RNIV should complete the MKR IM COREP reporting  template in addition to FSA005, and include the own funds required in their COREP reporting. The  components of RNIV should be included within C24.00 as follows.  •   RNIV from VaR should be added to [C24.00, {c030}, r010] and [C24.00, {c040}, r010];  •   RNIV from sVaR should be added to [C24.00, {c050}, r010] and [C24.00, {c060}, r010]; and  •   RNIV from stress tests should be added to [C24.00, {c050}, r010] and [C24.00, {c060}, r010].  Extensions and changes to the   RNIV   framework  2.10   The PRA expects firms to notify all model extensions and changes to the   RNIV   framework and  the pro - forma available on the Capital Requirements Regulation permissions webpage ,   1   on   the  Bank’s website should be submitted.  2.11   The PRA considers material changes to the RNIV framework to be when the extension or  change implies either: 1) a capital impact of 5% or more of the total market risk capital  requirements, including RNIV capital, or 2) a capital impact of 10% or more of th e total RNIV  component in line 64 of FSA005 in accordance with paragraph 2.8.   The PRA expects to be pre -  notified for material extensions or changes to the   RNIV   framework and to be notified following the  occurrence of any other non - material extensions or c hanges.  2.12   See Chapter 9 for the process around extensions and changes to IMA models under   Annex 3,  Part B of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part .  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/Authorisations/capital - requirements - regulation - permissions This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   6  Simplified s tandardised approach for options  3.1   Firms that need to use own estimates of delta for the purposes of the simplified standardised  approach for options, should provide the PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum  standards set out below for each type of option for which they calculate   delta. Firms should only  provide this confirmation if they meet the minimum standards. Where a firm meets the minimum  standards, they will be permitted to use own estimates of delta for the relevant option. Firms should  read the requirements for the grant ing of the permissions set out in Articles 329, 352, and 358   of the  Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part , as appropriate, before applying for any of  these permissions.  3.2   If a firm has a permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  with regard to a particular option type which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may  be applied and a rectification plan agreed. If a firm   is unable to comply with the rectification plan  within the mandated time - frame, further supervisory measures may be taken. This may include  variation of permissions so that they are no longer allowed to trade those particular types of option  for which they   do not meet the minimum standards.  Minimum standards  3.3   The level of sophistication of the pricing models, which are used to calculate own estimates of  delta for use in the   simplified   standardised approach for options, should be proportionate to the  complexity and risk of each option and the overall risk of the firm’s options trading business. In  general, it is considered that the risk of sold options will be higher than the risk of the   same options  when bought.  3.4   Delta should be recalculated at least daily. Firms should also recalculate delta promptly  following significant movements in the market parameters used as inputs to calculate delta.  3.5   The pricing model used to calculate delta should be:  •   based on appropriate assumptions which have been assessed and challenged by suitably  qualified parties independent of the development process ;  •   independently tested, including validation of the mathematics, assumptions, and software  implementation; and  •   developed or approved independently of the trading desk.  3.6   A firm should use generally accepted industry standard pricing models for the calculation of own  deltas where these are available, such as for relatively simple options.  3.7   The IT systems used to calculate delta should be sufficient to ensure that delta can be calculated  accurately and reliably.  3.8   Firms should have adequate systems and controls in place when using pricing models to  calculate deltas. This should include the following documented policies and procedures:  •   clearly defined responsibilities of the various areas involved in the calculation;  •   frequency of independent testing of the accuracy of the model used to calculate delta; and This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   7  •   guidelines for the use of unobservable inputs, where relevant.  3.9   A firm should ensure its risk management functions are aware of weaknesses of the model used  to calculate deltas. Where weaknesses are identified, the firm should ensure that estimates of delta  result in prudent capital requirements being held. The outcome   should be prudent across the whole  portfolio of options and underlying positions at a given time.  3A   Sensitivity Models for Interest Rate Risk  3A.1 Firms intending to use sensitivity models to calculate the positions on derivative instruments  covered in Articles 328 to 330 of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   are  expected to demonstrate that they meet the requirements for granting of the relevant permission  by providing the PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum standards set out in  paragraphs 3A.3 to 3A.9 below. Where a firm meets the minimum standa rds, it will be permitted to  use sensitivity models to calcul ate the positions referred to in those Articles and may use them for  any bond which is amortised over its residual life rather than via one final repayment of the  principal. Firms should read Article 331 of the Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR)  Part   before applying for this permission.  3A.2 If a firm has permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  with regard to a particular position which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may be  applied and a rectification plan agreed. If a firm   is unable to comply with the rectification plan within  the mandated time - frame, further supervisory measures may be taken.  Minimum standards  3A.3 Firms should indicate the instruments for which net sensitivity positions are used and the  currencies in which those positions are denominated. In addition, for the product scope requested  firms should:  •   confirm that the interest rate risk is managed on a discounted cash - flow basis; and  •   briefly indicate any growth plans for the exposures.  3A.4 Firms should confirm that all models generate positions which have the same sensitivity to  interest rate changes as the underlying cash flows.  3A.5 The sensitivities should be assessed with reference to independent movement in sample rates  across the yield curve, with at least one sensitivity point in each of the maturity bands and  appropriate to produce accurate valuation changes based on the as sumed interest rate changes as  set out in Table 2 in Article 339 of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part.  3A.6 The sophistication of all pricing models used should:  •   be proportionate to the complexity and risk of the instruments and the nature of the business;  •   be based on appropriate assumptions that have been assessed and challenged by suitably  qualified parties independent of the development process;  •   have been independently tested, including validation of the mathematics, assumptions, and  software implementation; and This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   8  •   have been developed or approved independently of the trading desk.  3A.7 The frequency of independent testing of the accuracy of the pricing model and guidelines for  the use of unobservable inputs, where relevant, should be documented. The responsibilities of the  various areas involved in the calculation should be clearly   defined and documented.  3A.8 Risk management functions should be aware of weaknesses in the model used to calculate  sensitivities to interest rate changes, and where weaknesses are identified a prudent amount of  additional capital should be held against the relevant exposures.  3A.9 Firms should confirm that sensitivities to interest rate changes can be recalculated promptly  following significant movements in inputs used to calculate sensitivities. IT systems used to calculate  sensitivities to interest rate changes should be suff icient to ensure that sensitivity positions can be  calculated accurately and reliably.  3B   Calculation of the overall net foreign exchange position  3B.1 Firms intending to exclude from the calculation of net open currency positions any positions  which are   deliberately   taken   or maintained   in order to hedge against the adverse effect of the  exchange rate on   their   ratios in accordance with Article 92(1) of the Required Level of Own Funds  (CRR) Part are expected to demonstrate that they meet the requirements for granting   permission  under Article 325(9) of the Market Risk: General Provisions (CRR) Part (the ‘Structural FX  Permission’)   and provide   the PRA with confirmation that they meet the minimum standards set out  in paragraphs   3B.4 - 3B. 13   below. Firms should read Article   325a1 of the Market Risk: General  Provisions (CRR) Part   before applying for this permission.  3B.2 If a firm has a permission under any of these Articles but ceases to be able to provide assurance  of a particular position which is currently within its permissions, a capital add - on may be applied and  a rectification plan agreed. If a firm is unable   to comply with the rectification plan within the  mandated time frame, further supervisory measures may be taken. This may include a variation of  permissions so that the firm is no longer allowed to exclude those hedging positions from the  calculation of ne t open currency positions for which it does not meet the minimum standards.  Level of application  3B.2A Chapter 2 of the Market Risk: General Provisions (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook sets out the  level of application of the requirements in that part. In relation to the calculation of own funds  requirements for foreign exchange risk, unless otherwise s tated, a firm will need to assess the  applicability of criteria at the relevant level of application. For example, when considering the  exclusion of a position at a particular level of application under Article 325(9A), or under a  permission given in accor dance with Article 325(9), a firm should only exclude those positions which  meet the criteria at that level of application.  3B.2B The PRA expects firms which make use of a Structural FX Permission (or firms seeking to make  use of a Structural FX Permission) to consider the effects on their capital ratios at both consolidated  and solo levels of risk positions it uses to hedge ag ainst the adverse effect of foreign exchange rates  on any of its capital ratios. The PRA will generally only consider applications to exclude a position at  the level(s) of consolidation for which the position acts as a hedge against the adverse effect of  f oreign exchange rates on a firm’s capital ratios. For example, where a position acts as a hedge for a  firm’s consolidated ratios but not its solo - level ratios, the PRA will generally only permit the firm to This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   9  exclude the FX position from the calculation of the net FX position at consolidated level. Where a  position acts as a hedge at both levels of consolidation, the firm should only exclude at a particular  level of consolidation that portion of the position wh ich acts as a hedge of its capital ratios at that  level of consolidation.  Minimum standards  3B.3   [Deleted]  3B.4   A f irm should confirm that mismatches resulting in an open   structural FX   position   (other than  those open structural FX positions it deliberately takes or maintains to protect its capital ratios)   are  avoided as far as possible and that positions are accounted for so that capital ratios are protected.  3B.5 Firms should confirm that they   minimise   any residual risks arising from structural FX positions ,  and consider such residual risks in their Pillar 2 assessment .  3B.6 Firms should confirm that policies and procedures are clearly articulated and are made  available to the board and to regulators on an annual basis. The structural FX hedging strategy  should be clearly articulated to investors and included in Pillar 3   disclosures.  3B.7   [Deleted]  3B.8 Firms should confirm that traders’ remuneration structures do not in any way incentivise the  structural FX positions becoming a profit centre.  3B.9 Oversight of the structural FX positions should be carried out by the appropriate committees of  the boards of both the foreign entity and the group on at least a quarterly basis.  3B.10 Firms have to calculate their foreign exchange risk positions for market risk capital  requirements in accordance with the methodologies referenced in Article 325(1) of the Market Risk:  General Provisions (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook. However, firms   may use an alternative measure  for the net FX position when calculated only for the purposes of the SFX permission, as long as they  can demonstrate to the PRA’s satisfaction that their proposed alternative is a more appropriate  measure for hedging capital   adequacy ratios against adverse movements in FX rates, and that the  proposed alternative does not omit any sources of FX risk that are of a non - trading or structural  nature.  3B.11. The PRA expects firms to calculate their maximum risk position which may be excluded from  the calculation of own funds requirements for foreign exchange risk, per currency i, using the  formula outlined below. Firms may use more complex approaches to   determine the maximum risk  position, as long as they can demonstrate to the PRA that the alternative approach is an appropriate  method of calculation.  𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑖𝑚𝑢𝑚   𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘   𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛   𝑖𝑛   𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑖𝑔𝑛   𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦   𝑖  =   𝑆𝑢𝑚   𝑜𝑓   𝑡 ℎ 𝑒   𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑖𝑔𝑛   𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦   𝑖   𝑅𝑊𝐴𝑠  ×   𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑡   𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑙   𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜   𝑜𝑓   𝑡 ℎ 𝑒   𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑦   ℎ 𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑖𝑛𝑔   𝑡 ℎ 𝑒   𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘  3B.12. As set out in the formula above, the maximum risk position should be calculated based on the  current capital ratio, at the relevant level of application of the entity. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   10  3B.13. Firms should at a minimum include their credit risk risk - weighted assets (RWAs) as part of  their foreign currency RWAs for the purposes of determining their maximum position per currency i  in accordance with paragraph 3B.11 above. For the purposes o f this calculation, ‘credit risk’ RWAs  are those RWAs referred to in Article 92(3)(a) of the Required Level of Own Funds (CRR) Part of the  PRA Rulebook. If firms wish to also include RWAs other than ‘credit risk’ RWAs, they should submit  the methodology fo r including them and their respective sensitivity to movements in FX to be  reviewed and agreed by the PRA.  Netting a convertible with its underlying instrument  [This section has been deleted]  4.1   [Deleted]  Offsetting derivative instruments  5.1   CRR Article 331(2) states conditions that should be met before firms not using interest rate pre -  processing models can fully offset interest rate risk on derivative instruments. One of the conditions  is that the reference rate (for floating rate positions)   or coupon (for fixed rate positions) should be  ‘closely matched’. The PRA would normally consider a difference of less than 15 basis points as  indicative of the reference rate or coupon being ‘closely matched’ for   the purposes of this Article. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   11  5A   Corrections to modified duration for debt instruments under Article  340   of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part  5A.1   The PRA expects firms making corrections to the calculation of modified duration for debt  instruments, which are subject to prepayment risk under the second subparagraph of Article 340(3)  of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, to   apply one of the following:  (a)   The formula set out in paragraph 5A.2  (b)   The formula set out in paragraph 5A.3.  5A.2 For the purposes of paragraph 5A.1(a), firms should apply the following formula to correct the  Modified Duration and compute a Corrected Modified Duration (CMD):  𝐶𝑀𝐷   =   𝑀𝐷   ×   Φ   ×   Ω  where:  𝑀𝐷   =   modified duration as in Article 340(3) of the Market Risk: Simplified Standardised  Approach (CRR) Part  Φ   =   𝐵  𝑃  Ω   =   1   +   Δ   +   1  2   ×   Γ   ×   𝑑𝐵   +   Ψ  𝑃   =   price of the bond with embedded optionality  𝐵   =   theoretical price of the vanilla bond  Δ   =   delta of the embedded option  Γ   =   gamma of the embedded option  Ψ   =   where not considered in the calculation of   Δ   and   Γ , and where material, an additional  factor for transaction costs and behavioural variables consistent with an Internal Rate of  Return (“IRR”) shift of 100 basis points (“b.p.”).  𝑑𝐵   =   change in value of the underlying  5A.3 For the purposes of paragraph 5A.1(b), firms should apply the following formula to re - compute  directly a Corrected Modified Duration (‘CMD’) by re - pricing the instrument after a shift of 100 b.p.  in the IRR:  𝐶𝑀𝐷   =   𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   −   𝑃 + Δ 𝑟  2   ×   𝑃 0   ×   Δ r   +   Ψ  where:  𝑃 0   =   the current market price of the product This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   12  𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   =   theoretical price of the product after a negative IRR shock equal to   Δ 𝑟  𝑃 + Δ 𝑟   =   theoretical price of the produce after a positive IRR shock equal to   Δ 𝑟  Δ 𝑟   =   a hypothetical IRR change of 50 b.p.  Ψ   =   where not considered in the calculation of   𝑃 − Δ 𝑟   and   𝑃 + Δ 𝑟 , and where material, an  additional factor for transaction costs and behavioural variables consistent with an IRR shift  of 100 b.p.  5A.4 The computation of the additional factor   Ψ   need only be considered if material, and should not  lead to a shorter   𝐶𝑀𝐷   than if it had not been considered in the calculation.  5A.5 For the purposes of assessing the additional factor   Ψ   in accordance with paragraph 5A.3, firms  should take into account each of the following:  (a)   that transaction costs reduce the value of the option, making the option unlikely to be  executed below the threshold established by the transaction costs; and  (b)   that there are behavioural factors suggesting that some clients, in particular retail clients,  may not always exercise an option, even when it is in the money, in certain circumstances  including the following:  (i)   where the remaining principal is close to the initial amount lent, leading some  ‘aggressive’ borrowers to leave or refinance at an early stage; and  (ii)   in the case of borrowers with the largest loan size who have the largest gain  from prepayment as the cost attached to prepayment is a fixed amount.  5A.6 The assessment of the additional factor   Ψ   should be based on historical data, obtained from a  firm’s own experience or from external sources. Data on the behavioural factors referred to in  5A.5(b) may be obtained from the assessment of other balance sheet elements subject to  prepayment risk, such   as those observed for retail clients in the non - trading book.  5A.7 Institutions should calibrate the additional factor   Ψ   by assessing significant divergences  between the real behaviour historically observed for a type of client and the theoretical behaviour  that would have been envisaged for counterparties acting in a purely rational way.  5A.8 The calibration of the additional factor   Ψ   , due to behavioural factors referred to in paragraph  5A.7, should be made where a relevant amount of these instruments with prepayment risk are held  in the trading book and especially where the counterparties are retail clients. Additional factors  should   not be considered for the embedded options where the institution has the right to call for an  early termination of the instrument .  Exclusion of overshootings when determining multiplication factor  addends  6.1   The PRA’s starting assumption will be that all overshootings should be taken into account for the  purpose of the calculation of addends. If a firm believes that an overshooting should not count for This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   13  that purpose, then it should contact the PRA in order to obtain its agreement to exclude that  particular overshooting. The PRA will then decide whether to agree to such an exclusion.  6.2   One example of when a firm’s overshooting might properly be disregarded is when it has arisen  as a result of a risk that is not captured in its VaR model, but against which capital resources are  already held.  Derivation of notional positions for   simplified   standardised approaches  Futures and forwards on a basket or index of debt securities  7.1   These should be converted into forwards on single debt securities as follows:  (1)   futures or forwards on a single currency basket or index of debt securities should be treated as  either:  (c)   a series of forwards, one for each of the constituent debt securities in the basket or index,  of an amount which is a proportionate part of the total underlying the contract according to  the weighting of the relevant debt security in the basket; or  (d)   a single forward on a notional debt security; and  (2)   futures or forwards on multiple currency baskets or indices of debt securities should be treated  as either:  (a)   a series of forwards (using the method described in 1(a)); or  (b)   a series of forwards, each one on a notional debt security to represent one of the currencies  in the basket or index, of an amount which is a proportionate part of the total underlying  the contract according to the weighting of the relevant currency in the   basket.  7.2   Notional debt securities derived through this treatment should be assigned a specific risk  position risk adjustment and a general market risk position risk adjustment equal to the highest that  would apply to the debt securities in the basket or index.  7.3   The debt security with the highest specific risk position risk adjustment within the basket might  not be the same as the one with the highest general market risk position risk adjustment. A firm  should select the highest percentages even where they relate   to different debt securities in the  basket or index, and regardless of the proportion of those debt securities in the basket or index.  Bonds where the coupons and principal are paid in different currencies  7.4   Where a debt security pays coupons in one currency, but will be redeemed in a different  currency, it should be treated as:  a debt security denominated in the coupon ’ s currency; and  a foreign currency forward to capture the fact that the debt security’s principal will be  repaid in a different currency from that in which it pays coupons, specifically:  (a)   a notional forward sale of the coupon currency and purchase of the redemption currency,  in the case of a long position in the debt security; or This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   14  (b)   a notional forward purchase of the coupon currency and sale of the redemption currency,  in the case of a short position in the debt security.  Interest rate risk on other futures, forwards and swaps  7.5   Other futures, forwards, and swaps where a treatment is not specified in Article 328 of the  Market   Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part   should be treated as positions in zero  specific risk securities, each of which:  has a zero coupon;  has a maturity equal to that of the relevant contract; and  is long or short according to the following table:  I n s t r u m e n t   N o ti o n a l   p o s i t i o ns  F o r e i g n   cu r r e n c y  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re  A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n  den o mi n a t e d   i n   t h e  c u r ren c y   p u rc h a s e d  a n d   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n  den o mi n a t e d   i n   t h e  c u r ren c y   s o l d .  G o ld   f o rw a rd   A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re   i n v o lves  an   a c t u al   ( o r   n o t i o n al)  s ale   o f g o ld  o r   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  f o rw a rd   o r   f u t u re   i n v o lves  an   a c t u al   ( o r   n o t i o n al)  pu rc h a s e   o f g o l d .  E qu ity   f o rw a rd   A   l o n g   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  co n t r a c t   in v o lves   an  a c t u al( o r   n o t i o n al) sa l e   o f  t h e   u nde r lyi n g   e q u ity  o r   A   sh o rt   p o s i t i o n   if t h e  co n t r a c t   o r   f u t u re  i n v o lves   an   a c t u al   ( o r  n o t i o n al) p u rc h a s e   o f t h e  un d e r l yi n g   e q u ity.  Deferred start interest rate swaps or foreign currency swaps  7.6   Interest rate swaps or foreign currency swaps with a deferred start should be treated as two  notional positions (one long, one short). The paying leg should be treated as a short position in a  zero specific risk security with a coupon equal to the fixed ra te of the swap. The receiving leg should  be treated as a long position in a zero specific risk security, which also has a coupon equal to the  fixed rate of the swap. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   15  7.7   The maturities of the notional positions are shown in the following table:  Paying leg   Receiving leg  Receiving fixed and paying floating   The maturity equals the start date of  the swap.  The maturity equals the maturity of  the swap.  Paying fixed and receiving floating   The maturity equals the maturity of the  swap.  The maturity equals the start date  of the swap.  Swaps where only one leg is an interest rate leg  7.8   For the purposes of interest rate risk, a firm should treat a swap (such as an equity swap) with  only one interest rate leg as a notional position in a zero - specific - risk security:  (a)   with a coupon equal to that on the interest rate leg;  (b)   with a maturity equal to the date that the interest rate will be reset; and  (c)   which is a long position if the firm is receiving interest payments and short if making interest  payments.  Foreign exchange forwards, futures and CFDs  7.9   A firm should treat a foreign currency forward, future, or Contracts for Difference (CFDs) as two  notional currency positions as follows:  (a)   a long notional position in the currency which the firm has contracted to buy; and  (b)   a short notional position in the currency which the firm has contracted to sell.  7.10   The notional positions should have a value equal to either:  (c)   the contracted amount of each currency to be exchanged in the case of a forward, future, or CFD  held in the non - trading book; or  (d)   the present value of the amount of each currency to be exchanged in the case of a forward,  future, or CFD held in the trading book.  Foreign currency swaps  7.11   A firm should treat a foreign currency swap as:  (e)   a long notional position in the currency in which the firm has contracted to receive interest and  principal; and  (f)   a short notional position in the currency in which the firm has contracted to pay interest and  principal.  7.12   The notional positions should have a value equal to either:  (g)   the nominal amount of each currency underlying the swap if it is held in the non - trading book;  or This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   16  (h)   the present value amount of all cash flows in the relevant currency in the case of a swap held in  the trading book.  Futures, forwards, and CFDs on a single commodity  7.13   Where a forward, future or CFD settles according to:  (1)   the difference between the price set on trade date and that prevailing at contract expiry, then  the notional position should:  (a)   equal the total quantity underlying the contract; and  (b)   have a maturity equal to the expiry date of the contract; and  (i)   the difference between the price set on trade date and the average of prices prevailing  over a certain period up to contract expiry, then a notional position should be derived  for each of the reference dates used in the averaging period to calculate the av erage  price, which:  (a)   equals a fractional share of the total quantity underlying the contract; and  (b)   has a maturity equal to the relevant reference date.  Buying or selling a single commodity at an average of spot prices prevailing in the future  7.14   Commitments to buy or sell at the average spot price of the commodity prevailing over some  period between trade date and maturity should be treated as a combination of:  (1)   a position equal to the full amount underlying the contract with a maturity equal to the maturity  date of the contract, which should be:  (a)   long, where the firm will buy at the average price; or  (b)   short, where the firm will sell at the average price; and  (2)   a series of notional positions, one for each of the reference dates where the contract price  remains unfixed, each of which should:  (a)   be long if the position under (1) is short, or short if the position under (1) is long;  (b)   equal to a fractional share of the total quantity underlying the contract; and  (c)   have a maturity date of the relevant reference date.  Qualifying debt instruments  This chapter has been deleted.  Expectations relating to internal models This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   17  9.1   Article 363   of Annex 3, Part A of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   states that  an institution   with permission   to use internal models to calculate capital is subject to   ensuring  compliance with :  •   the general requirements ;  •   requirements particular to specific risk modelling ; and  •   requirements   for an internal model for incremental default and migration risk .  9.2   The   stan d ar d s   that   t h e   P RA   e xpe c ts   t o   b e   m et   t o   c o n s i d er   that an   instit u t i o n   is   c o m p lia n t with  t h e s e   r eq u ire m ents   a r e   set   o u t   b e l o w .  Hi g h - l e v e l   st a n d a rds  9.3   A   firm should be able to demonstrate that it meets the risk management standards set out in  Article 368   of Annex 3, Part A of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   on a legal  entity and business line basis where appropriate. This is particularly important for a subsidiary  undertaking in a group subject to matrix management, where the business lines cut across legal  entity boundaries .  C a te g o ri e s   of   p o s i tion  9.4   A   VaR model permission will generally set out the broad classes of position within each risk  category within its scope. It may also specify how individual products within one of those broad  classes may be brought into or taken out of scope of the VaR model p ermission. These broad classes  of permission are as follows :  (1)   L i n ear p r o du cts,   which   c o m p rise   se c u rit i es   with li n e a r pa y - o f f s   (such   a s b o nd s   a n d eq u ities),  a n d   d eri v a ti v e   p r o du cts   which   ha v e   li n ear   pa y - o ffs   in the   u nd erlying   ri s k   fac t o r (such   as  i n t ere s t   rate   s w a p s, f o r war d - rate   ag r e em ent s , and   t o tal r e turn   s w a p s ).  (2)   European, American and Bermudan put and call options (including caps, floors, and  swaptions) and investments with these features.  (3)   Asian options, digital options, single barrier options, double barrier options, look back  options, forward starting options, compound options and investments with these features.  (4)   All other option based products (such as basket options, quantos, outperformance options,  timing options, and correlation - based products) and investments with these features.  Data standards  9.5   The   PRA expects a firm to ensure that the data series used by its VaR model is reliable. Where a  reliable data series is not available, proxies or any other reasonable value - at - risk measurement may  be used when the firm can demonstrate that the requirements of   Article 367(2)(e)   of Annex 3, Part A  of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   are met. A firm should be able to This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   18  demonstrate that the technique is appropriate and does not materially understate the modelled  risks .  9.6   Data may be deemed insufficient if, for example, it contains missing data points, or data points  which contain stale data. With regard to less - liquid risk factors or positions, the PRA expects the firm  make a conservative assessment of those risks, using a   combination of prudent valuation techniques  and alternative VaR estimation techniques to ensure there is a sufficient cushion against risk over  the close out period, which takes account of the illiquidity of the risk factor or position .  9.7   A   firm is expected to update data sets to ensure standards of reliability are maintained in  accordance with the frequency set out in its VaR model permission, or more frequently if volatility in  market prices or rates necessitates more frequent updating. Thi s is in order to ensure a prudent  calculation of the VaR measure .  Aggregating   VaR   measures  9.8   In   determining whether it is appropriate for an institution to use empirical correlations within  risk categories and across risk categories within a model, the PRA expects certain features to be  observed in assessing whether such an approach is sound and impl emented with integrity. In  general, the PRA expects a firm to determine the aggregate VaR measure by adding the relevant VaR  measure for each category, unless the firm’s permission provides for a different method of  aggregating VaR measures which is emp irically sound .  9.9   The PRA does not expect a firm to use the square root of the sum of the squares approach when  aggregating measures across risk categories or within risk categories unless the assumption of zero  correlation between these categories is empirically justified.   If correlations between risk categories  are not empirically justified, the VaR measures for each category should simply be added in order to  determine its aggregate VaR measure. However, to the extent that a firm’s VaR model permission  provides for a diff erent way of aggregating VaR measures :  that   method   ap p lies   i n s t e a d ;   a nd  if the   c o rrel a ti o n s   be t w e en   risk   c a t e g o ries u s ed f o r t h at   pu r p o se   ce a se   t o   b e   e mp ir i cally  j u stified   t h en   the fi r m   m u st   n o ti f y   t h e   ap p r o p ri a t e   re g u lat o r   a t   o n ce .  Testing prior to model validation  9.10   A firm is expected to provide evidence of its ability to comply with the requirements for a VaR  model permission. In general, it will be required to demonstrate this by having a back -   testing  programme in place and should provide three months of back - testi ng history .  9.11   A   period   of initial monitoring or live testing is required before a   VaR   model can be recognised.  This will be agreed on a firm by firm basis.  9.12   In assessing the firm’s   VaR   model and risk management, the results of internal model  validation procedures used by the firm to assess the   VaR   model will be taken into account .  B a ck - t e s tin g  9.13   For clarity, the back - testing requirements of   A rticle 366   of Annex 3, Part A of   the   Market Risk:  Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   should be implemented as follows : This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   19  •   If the day on which a loss is made is day n, the value - at - risk measure for that day will be  calculated on day n - 1, or overnight between day n - 1 and day n. Profit and loss figures are  produced on day n+1, and back - testing also takes place on day n+1. The fi rm’s supervisor should  be notified of any overshootings by close of business on day n+2.  •   Any overshooting initially counts for the purpose of the calculation of the plus factor even if  subsequently the PRA agrees to exclude it. Thus, where the firm experiences an overshooting  and already has four or more overshootings for the previous 250 busi ness days, changes to the  multiplication factor arising from changes to the plus factor become effective at day n+3.  9.14   A   longer time period generally improves the power of back - testing. However a longer time  period may not be desirable if the VaR model or market conditions have changed to the extent that  historical data are no longer relevant .  9.15   The   PRA will review, as part of a firm’s VaR model permission application, the processes and  documentation relating to the derivation of profit and loss used for back - testing. A firm’s  documentation should clearly set out the basis for cleaning profit and los s. To the extent that certain  profit and loss elements are not updated every day (for example certain reserve calculations) the  documentation should clearly set out how such elements are included in the profit and loss series   .  Plan n e d   e x t e n s i o n s   a n d   c h a n ge s   to   t h e   I n te rn a l   M o d e l   A p pr oa c h   m o d e l  9.16   In   accordance with Article 363(3 )   of Annex 3, Part A of   the   Market Risk: Internal Model  Approach (CRR) Part , the PRA expects a firm to provide and discuss with the PRA details of any  significant planned changes to the Internal Model Approach model before those changes are  implemented. These must include detailed information about the nature of the change, inclu ding  an estimate of the impact on capital requirements. The PRA expects firms to submit the pro - forma  for all internal model extensions or changes when   submitting an application for approval, a pre -  notification or post - notification in accordance   with Annex 3, Part B of the Market Risk: Internal  Model Approach (CRR) Part . For the avoidance of doubt, the assessments of materiality that  determine whether a model change is an application, prenotification or post - notification should be  carried out without incorporating capital requirements from the RNIV framework. See Chapter   2  for the process around extensions and changes to the RNIV framework. The pro - forma   can be  found on the Bank’s website at  www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations/crr/applying.aspx .  Ten - day VaR and sVaR calculation  9.17   Th e use of overlapping intervals of ten - day holding periods for the purposes of Article 365   of  Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part   introduces an  autocorrelation into the data that would not exist should truly independent ten - day periods be  used. This may give rise to an underestimation of the volatility and the VaR at the 99% confidence  level. To obtain clarity on the materiality of t he bias, firms should measure the bias arising from the  use of overlapping intervals for ten - day VaR and sVaR when compared to using independent  intervals as a part of its periodic model validation .  9.18   A   firm that scales its one - day VaR and sVaR measures to ten - days should ensure that the  upscaled VaR and sVaR measures do not underestimate risk when compared to the corresponding  full ten - day VaR and sVaR measures. The firm should perform this analysis as   a part of its periodic  model validation .  Accuracy of approximate revaluation approaches This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   20  9.19   F irms   should perform periodic monitoring to demonstrate the accuracy of any approximate  revaluation approaches used within its model (eg for firms using sensitivities, revaluation ladders,  or spot/vol - matrices), with a particular emphasis on sVaR suitability. T his should include a review  of any ladders/matrices to ensure that they are extended to accommodate wider shocks  associated with the firm’s selected 1 - year sVaR period. The frequency of the monitoring should be  commensurate to the accuracy of the firm ’s approximate revaluation approach and the materiality  of the risks covered   .  Trading locations  9.20   In   accordance with   Annex 3, Part B of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part ,  firms must seek pre - approval from the PRA if they wish to extend the use of their Internal Models  Approach (IMA) to a trading desk located in another jurisdiction or time zone that is not listed as a  trading location in the existing permission. For clarity   the PRA takes the view that a ‘trading desk’  in this context may be defined as a group of traders or trading accounts that has a well -  documented business strategy,   a revenue target and clear trading limits. The PRA takes the view  that sub - desks that are set up for internal operation purposes only (such as for the booking and  transmission of trades to another trading desk with IMA approval) should not be ‘trading des ks’ for  this purpose.  Stressed VaR calculation  10.1   Article 365   of Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part  requires firms that use an internal model for calculating their own funds requirement to calculate  at least weekly a sVaR of their current portfolio. When the PRA considers a firm’s application to  use a sVaR internal model, the PRA would expect the followi ng features to be present prior to  permission being granted as indicative that the conditions for granting permission have been met .  Qu a n tile   est i ma t o r  10.2   The   firm should calculate the sVaR measure to be greater than or equal to the average of the  second and third worst loss in a twelve - month time series comprising of 250 observations. The PRA  expects as a minimum that a corresponding linear weighting scheme sho uld be applied if the firm  use a larger number of observations .  Mea n i ng of   ‘ p e ri o d   o f   s ig n ifi ca n t   f i n a n c i a l   s t r e ss   r e l e v a nt   to t h e   i ns t i t uti o n’s po r t f o l i o’  10.3   Subject   to paragraph 10.3A, the firm should ensure that the sVaR period chosen is equivalent  to the period that would maximise VaR given the firm’s portfolio. There is an expectation that a  stressed period should be identified at each legal entity level at which   capital is reported.  Therefore, group -   level sVaR measures should be based on a period that maximises the group - level  VaR, whereas entity - level sVaR should be based on a period that maximises VaR for that entity   .  10.3A   Th e PRA expects that, to identify their sVaR period, firms should consider an observation  period that starts at least from Monday 1 January 2007. The PRA expects that the observation  period generally does not need to include the most recent 12 months of hist orical data  immediately preceding the point of calculation, in order to minimise overlaps with VaR. However,  firms may include the most recent 12 months in their observation period, where it leads to a more  appropriately prudent outcome. Where a firm belie ves that the observation period for  determining the sVaR stress period should exclude more than the most recent 12 months (for  example, where the firm uses more than the most recent 12 months to calculate VaR), the firm  should contact the PRA setting out,   and providing justification for, its rationale . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   21  Antithetic data  10.4   The   PRA expects firms to consider whether the use of antithetic data in the calculation of the  sVaR measure is appropriate to the firm’s portfolio. A justification for using or not using antithetic  data should be provided to the PRA .  Ab s o lu te   a n d   r e l a t i ve   s h if ts  10.5   The   PRA expects firms to be able to justify on an ongoing basis the rationale for the choice of  risk factor shift methodologies (eg absolute or relative shifts). In particular, the consistency of the  assumed risk factor dynamics with those observed in practice   should be evidenced for both VaR  and sVaR as a part of the firm’s periodic model validation .  10.6   The   f o ll o wing   in f o r m at i o n   i s   e xp e ct e d   to   be   su b m it t ed   q u arterl y :  •   analysis to support the equivalence of the firm’s current approach to a VaR - maximising  approach on an ongoing basis;  •   the rationale behind the selection of key major risk factors used to find the period of significant  financial stress (where relevant);  •   summary of ongoing internal monitoring of stressed period selection with respect to current  portfolio; and  •   the firm’s 10 - day 99% standalone VaR and sVaR by asset class.  Requirement to have an internal IRC model  11.1   Article 372   of Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part  requires firms that use an internal model for calculating own funds requirements for specific risk of  traded debt instruments to also have an internal incremental default and migration risk (IRC)  model in place. This model should capture the default and mi gration risk of its trading book  positions that are incremental to the risks captured by its VaR model .  11.2   When the PRA considers a firm’s application to use an IRC internal model, the PRA expects  that the following matters would be included as demonstrating compliance with the standards set  in Article 372   of Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part .  B a s i s   r i sks   f or   m i g r a t i o n  11.3   The PRA expects the IRC model to capitalise pre - default basis risk. In this respect, the model  should reflect that in periods of stress the basis could widen substantially. Firms should disclose to  the PRA their material basis risks that are incremental to   those already captured in existing market  risk capital measures (VaR - based and others). This must take actual close - out periods during  periods of illiquidity into account.  Pr i ce/sp r ea d   c h a n g e   m o d e l  11.4   The   price/spread change model used to capture the profit and loss impact of migration  should calibrate spread changes to long - term averages of differences between spreads for relevant  ratings. These should either be conditioned on actual rating events, or usin g the entire history of  spreads regardless of migration. Point - in - time estimates are not considered acceptable, unless  they can be shown to be as conservative as using long - term averages . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   22  D e p e nd e n ce   of t h e   r e c o v e r y   r a te on   t h e   e c o n omic   cyc l e  11.5   To   achieve a soundness standard comparable to those under the IRB approach, LGD  estimates should reflect the economic cycle. The PRA therefore expects firms to incorporate  dependence of the recovery rate on the economic cycle into the IRC model. Should the fi rm use a  conservative parameterisation to comply with the IRB standard of the use of downturn estimates,  evidence of this will be required to be submitted in quarterly reporting to the PRA, bearing in  mind that for trading portfolios, which contain long an d short positions, downturn estimates  would not in all cases be a conservative choice .  Annual   SMF   attestation of market risk internal models  12.1   The   PRA expects an appropriate individual in a   Senior Management Function (SMF)   role to  provide to the PRA on an annual basis written attestation that the firm’s internal approaches for  which it has received a permission comply with the requirements in   Annex 3, Part A of the Market  Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR) Part , and any applicable market risk supervisory statements .  12.2   Firms should agree the appropriate   SMF   for providing this attestation with the PRA, noting  that the PRA would not expect to agree more than 2   SMFs   to cover all the firm’s market risk  internal models as described   in   Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model Approach (CRR)  Part .  12.3   Where   a firm is unable to provide an attestation under paragraph 12.1 or at any time has  ceased to comply with the requirements in   Annex 3, Part A of the Market Risk: Internal Model  Approach (CRR) Part , then the firm is expected to notify the PRA of that fact pursuant to  Fundamental Rule 7 of the PRA Rulebook for CRR firms and to do one of the following :  •   present the PRA with a credible plan for a timely return to compliance; or  •   demonstrate to the satisfaction of the PRA that the effect of non - compliance is immaterial .  Alternative definitions of sensitivities   in the advanced standardised  approach  13.1   In assessing a firm’s application   for permission   to use alternative definitions of sensitivities for  calculating the own funds requirements of a trading book position under   Article 325t(5) of the  Market Risk: Advanced Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, the PRA expects firms to :  •   provide justification that the resulting sensitivities are appropriate for calculating the own  funds requirements of a trading book position ; and  •   document the circumstances or scenarios under which the results of the alternative  definitions of sensitivities might materially differ from those in the   PRA rulebook . Firms  should have an appropriate process to ensure that if and when those scenarios occur, the  resulting sensitivity - based method calculation does not understate risk (when compared to  the use of the standard definitions). Firms should periodically updat e this analysis. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027

Market risk   January   202 6   23  Determination of the value of a CIU and its underlying investments for  the purpose of Articles 104(2)(f), 104(2)(h), and 325j(1)(a)  14.1   Firms are required to determine the ‘value’ of a CIU and its underlying investments to apply the  thresholds in Articles 104(2)(f), 104(2)(h), and 325j(1)(a). For many standard CIUs, the PRA considers  Net Asset Value (NAV) would be an appropriate measure fo r the CIU and the respective valuations  included in the NAV would be appropriate for its underlying investments. However, the PRA expects  this determination of value to consider whether there are features of the CIU, such as leverage,  derivatives that are   used for purposes other than hedging, or synthetic positions, that would mean  that the NAV or the related valuation of the underlying investments would not be an appropriate  measure to reflect the proportion of the overall market risk of the CIU that a col lection of underlying  investments contribute. In cases where such features exist, firms should instead apply an alternative  approach to determine the CIU and its underlying investments’ value for the purpose of applying the  thresholds in Articles 104(2)(f) , 104(2)(h), and 325j(1)(a). Firms should be able to demonstrate to  supervisors, upon request, that the alternative approach appropriately reflects the CIU and  underlying investments’ value, taking into account its market risk profile. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027 to accompany PS1/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/implementation-of-the-basel-3-1-final-rules-policy-statement Effective from 1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027


