---
title: "SS1513/ – Ss1513 Jan 2022"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2021/ss1513-jan-2022.pdf"
---

# SS1513/ – Ss1513 Jan 2022

Supervisory   Statement |   SS 15 / 13  Groups  July 2021  (Updating   January 2021 )

Supervisory Statement   |   SS15/13  Groups  July 2021  ( Updating   January 2021 )  © Bank of England   202 1  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA

C ontents  1   Introduction   1  2   Approach to consolidation   1  3   CRR   Article 19(2)   —   entities excluded from the scope of prudential consolidation   3  Annex: Changes to SS15/13   5

1   Introduction  1.1   This supervisory statement is relevant to all banks, building societies, and designated investment  firms and all PRA - approved or PRA - designated   holding companies.  1.2   This statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations about  applications relating to:  (a)   its approach to consolidation, in particular individual consolidation (CRR Article 9) and the  method of consolidation f or entities falling within CRR Article 18(5); and  (b)   excluding certain entities from consolidation (CRR Article 19(2)).  1.3   This statement should be read in conjunction with the CRR articles listed, the requirements in  the Groups Part of the PRA Rulebook and   the high - level expectations outlined in The PRA’s approach  to banking supervision. 1   For RFBs, as defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA),  section 142A, or any other PRA - authorised person that is a member of a group containing an RFB,  this   statement should be read alongside the PRA’s Supervisory Statement 8/16 ‘Ring - fenced bodies  (RFBs)’. 2  2   Approach to consolidation  2.1   Where a parent institution wishes to apply for individual consolidation, it will be expected to  make a formal application to   the PRA. The PRA expects the application to demonstrate how the  conditions set out in CRR Article 9 and 396(2) are met.  2.2   The PRA will assess individual consolidation applications against CRR Article 9 and 396(2) on a  case by case basis. Where the conditio ns in CRR Article 9 and 396(2) are met, the PRA will assess  whether it is still appropriate to permit the treatment, if doing so risks conflict with its statutory  objectives. The PRA will apply a high level of scrutiny to applications under CRR Article 9 a s per the  PRA’s previous solo consolidation regime.  2.2A An RFB, or any other PRA - authorised person that is a member of a group containing an RFB,  should note that the PRA will assess whether it remains appropriate to permit the treatment where  the condi tions set out in CRR Article 9 and 396(2) are met, including an assessment of the impact of  the proposed treatment on the ability of the RFB and any other members of its group to fulfil their  ring - fencing obligations, and on the PRA’s general safety and so undness objective in relation to ring -  fencing. 3  2.3   Where a parent institution does not wish to proportionately consolidate its undertakings subject  to CRR Article 18(5), it will be expected to make a formal application to the PRA. The application  should seek   to demonstrate how proportionately consolidating those undertakings is  disproportionate to the risk carried by the firm.  2.3A CRR Article 18(7) permits the PRA to allow or require a firm to use a method other than the  equity method for valuing certain holdings where specific criteria are met. Where a parent  1   www.bankofengland.co.uk/publications/Pages/other/pra/supervisoryapproach.aspx .  2   PRA Supervisory Statement 8/16 ‘Ring - fenced bodies’, July 2016, available at:  ww w.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ss/2016/ss816.aspx .  3   See   section 2B of FSMA.

institution does not wish to apply the equity method, but instead wi shes to use another valuation  method, it will be expected to make a formal application. The application should seek to  demonstrate how the criteria set out in Article 18(7) are met. The PRA may then be able to permit  the use of a different method, such as   the one used by the firm under its applicable accounting  framework, where the relevant criteria are met. The PRA may also require a firm to use a different  valuation method if it determines that the equity method is unduly burdensome or does not  adequately   reflect the risks of a holding.  2.3B CRR Article 18(8) permits the PRA to require the full or proportional consolidation of certain  undertakings where an institution has a subsidiary or participation relationship with them and where  there is ‘substantial   step - in risk’. 4   This is consistent with the Basel Committee’s guidelines on the  ‘Identification and management of step - in risk’. 5   The PRA intends to exercise this power on a case -  by - case basis where it assesses that there is evidence that such substantial   step - in risk exists.  2.3C CRR Article 11(6) permits the PRA to require an institution to comply with prudential  requirements on a sub - consolidated basis, where it is justified by the specificities of the risk, or of  the capital structure of an institution , or for the purposes of structural separation. One circumstance  in which the PRA may exercise this power on a case - by - case basis is where it has concerns about the  impact of any subsidiary or subsidiaries in a third country on a UK firm.  Application of cr iteria  2.4   CRR Article 9(2) requires parent institutions to demonstrate fully to the PRA, as competent  authority, that there are no material practical or legal impediments to the prompt transfer of own  funds or repayment of liabilities when due by the subsid iary to its parent undertaking.  2.5   When making this assessment, the PRA will consider whether any minority interest may  represent an impediment of any kind to the prompt transfer of own funds or repayment of liabilities  from subsidiary undertaking to parent . The PRA expects that the parent institution should  demonstrate that any minority interest in a subsidiary institution will not result in the potential  blocking or delay of prompt transfer of own funds or repayment of liabilities.  2.6   It is possible for a f irm to meet the condition in CRR Article 7(1)(d) but not meet the condition in  CRR Article 9(2).  2.7   The PRA will consider the non - exhaustive list below when determining whether the conditions in  CRR Article 9(2) are met:  (a)   the speed with which funds can be tr ansferred or liabilities repaid to the firm and the simplicity  of the method for the transfer or repayment;  (b)   whether there are any interests other than those of the firm in the subsidiary undertaking and  what impact those other interests may have on the f irm’s control over the subsidiary  undertaking and on the ability of the firm to require a transfer of funds or repayment of  liabilities. As part of the PRA’s overall assessment, it would consider one of the indicators to  achieving prompt transfer as being   ownership of 75% or more of the subsidiary undertaking; 6  4   Defined in CRR Article 18(8)(b) as, ‘a substantial risk that the institution decides to provide financ ial support to that undertaking   in  stressed conditions, in the absence of, or in excess of any contractual obligations to provide   such support ’ .  5   Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, ‘Guidelines: Identification and management of step - in risk’, October 2017:  https://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d423.htm .  6   75% or more shareholders   can pass a special resolution.

(c)   whether the prompt transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities to the firm might harm the  reputation of the firm or its subsidiary undertakings;  (d)   whether there are any tax disadvantages for the   firm or the subsidiary undertaking as a result of  the transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities;  (e)   whether there are any exchange controls that may have an impact on the transfer of funds or  repayment of liabilities;  (f)   whether there are assets in the   subsidiary undertaking available either to be transferred or  liquidated for the purposes of the transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities;  (g)   whether any regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiary undertaking to transfer  funds or repa y liabilities promptly;  (h)   whether the legal structure of the subsidiary undertaking prejudices the prompt transfer of  funds or repayment of liabilities;  (i)   whether the contractual relationships of the subsidiary undertaking with the firm and other  third part ies prejudices the prompt transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities;  (j)   whether past and proposed flows of funds between the subsidiary undertaking and the firm  demonstrate the ability to make prompt transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities; and  (k)   whether past and proposed flows of funds between the subsidiary undertaking and the firm  demonstrate the ability to make prompt transfer of funds or repayment of liabilities; and  (l)   whether the degree of   individual   consolidation by the firm undermines the PRA’s ability to  assess the soundness of the firm as a legal entity.  3   CRR Article 19(2)   —   entities   excluded from the scope of prudential  consolidation  Application process  3.1   Where a firm wishes to exclude entities from the scope of prudential consolidation, it will be  expected to make a formal application to the PRA. This application should seek to art iculate how one  of the conditions set out in CRR Article 19(2) (a), (b) or (c) is met.  3.2   The PRA will assess applications to exclude entities from the scope of prudential consolidation  under CRR Article 19(2) on a case by case basis. The PRA will only gran t this treatment with respect  to undertakings where one of the conditions in CRR Article 19(2) is met. Even where a CRR Article  19(2) condition is met, the PRA will make its own judgment whether to permit this treatment.  Application of criteria  3.3   CRR Artic le 19(2) allows the consolidating supervisor to decide that an institution, financial  institution or ancillary services undertaking, which is a subsidiary or in which a participation is held,  need not be included in the consolidation in the following cases :  (a)   where the undertaking concerned is situated in a third country where there are legal  impediments to the transfer of necessary information; or

(b)   where the undertaking concerned is of negligible interest only with respect to the objectives of  monitoring   credit institutions.  3.4   If several undertakings meet the criterion in (b) above, and are collectively of non - negligible  interest with respect of the specified objectives, the PRA may not agree to exclude them all from the  consolidation.  3.5   The PRA may ask a   firm to provide information about the undertakings excluded from  consolidation

Annex: Changes to SS15/13  This annex details changes made to SS15/13 following its initial publication in December 2013 .  July 2021  This SS   was updated in July 2021 following   publication of Policy Statement (PS )   17/ 21  ‘ Implementation of Basel standards ’ . 7   Paragraph 2.3C was added to clarify   that   one instance in  which the   PRA may   use its powers to   impose requirements on a sub - consolidated basis   is   where the  risks posed to a firm by a third country subsidiary or   subsidiaries warrant such   treatment   as  determined   on a case - by - case basis.  January 2021  T his SS was further updated   in January 2021   following publication of Policy Statement (PS)   29 / 20  ‘Cap ital Requirements Directive V’ . 8   The material relating to the application process for firms to  apply to use   two   IPUs was deleted following the deletion of the IPU rules from the PRA Rulebook at  the end of the EU Exit Transition Period. The revision deleted   Chapter 4.  December 2020  This SS was updated following publication of Policy Statement (PS)   26 / 20 ‘Capital Requirements  Directive V’ 9 . The changes set out the application process for firms to apply to use two IPUs. The  statement has also been updated to   reflect:     the change in the PRA’s rules to require proportional consolidation where a firm has a  relationship with an undertaking as set out in CRR Article 18(5);     the PRA’s approach to the discretion to require a valuation method other than the equity  metho d for certain subsidiaries (CRR Article 18(7)): and     the PRA’s approach to the discretion to require full or proportional consolidation of certain  undertakings where there is substantial step - in risk (CRR Article 18(8)).  These revisions are found in Chapter   2 and Chapter 4.  The PRA also made minor formatting changes throughout this SS to improve readability.  July 2016  On 7 July 2016, this supervisory statement (SS) was updated following publication of Policy  Statement (PS) 20/16 ‘The implementation of ring - f encing: prudential requirements, intragroup  arrangements and use of financial market infrastructures’ which included final ring - fencing rules and  Supervisory Statement 8/16 ‘Ring - fenced bodies (RFBs)’. Specifically, paragraph 1.3 has been  updated to take i nto account SS8/16 and paragraph 2.2A has been added to set out expectations of  the PRA’s approach to applications by an RFB, or any other person that is a member of a group  containing an RFB, for permission to use individual consolidation.  7   July   2021:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/feb ruary/implementation - of - basel - standards .  8   December 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/capital - requirements - directive - v .  9   December 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/capital - requirement s - directive - v .


