---
title: "SS1616/ – Ss1616 The Minimum Requirement For Own Funds And Eligible Liabilities Mrel Buffers And Threshold C"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2016/ss1616--the-minimum-requirement-for-own-funds-and-eligible-liabilities-mrel--buffers-and-threshold-c.pdf"
---

# SS1616/ – Ss1616 The Minimum Requirement For Own Funds And Eligible Liabilities Mrel Buffers And Threshold C

Supervisory   Statement   |   SS16 /1 6  The minimum requirement for own  funds and eligible liabilities (MREL)   –  buffers and Threshold Conditions  July 2025  (updating   December 2020 )

Supervisory Statement   |   SS16/16  The minimum requirement for own  funds and   eligible liabilities (MREL)   –  buffers and Threshold Conditions  July 2025  © Bank of England   2020  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA

Contents  Introduction   1  Buffers   1  3   Threshold Conditions   3  4   Transitional arrangements   3  Appendix   Supervisory Statement updates   4

MREL   –   buffers and Threshold Conditions   July 2025   1  Introduction  1.1   This supervisory statement (SS) is aimed at Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) - regulated  banks, building societies and PRA designated investment firms (firms).  1.2   This statement sets out the PRA’s expectations on the relationship between the minimum  requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) and both capital and leverage ratio buffers,  as well as the implications that a breach of MREL would have for t he PRA’s consideration of whether  a firm is failing, or likely to fail, to satisfy the Threshold Conditions.  1.3   This SS provides further detail in relation to the high level expectations outlined in ‘The PRA’s  approach to banking supervision’. 1   As set out in the approach document, firms are expected to  engage directly with policy material, including SSs, and determine   —   bearing in mind the overarching  principle of safety and soundness   —   whether they meet the PRA’s expectations.  1.4   This SS should be read in conjunction with the Bank of England’s (the Bank’s) statement of policy  on its approach to setting MREL 2   and PRA SSs on   risk - weighted   capital buffers 3   and leverage buffers. 4  Buffers  Calculating an amount of common equity tier 1 capital   (CET1) to meet buffer requirements  that cannot also be counted to meet MREL  2.A   The PRA expects firms to meet both MREL and maintain an amount of CET1 that reflects their  risk - weighted capital and leverage buffers. The PRA expects firms not to double count CET1 towards  both MREL and the amount reflecting the risk - weighted capital and   leverage buffers. While firms can  meet MREL with CET1, they do not have to meet it with CET1. See ‘The Bank of England’s approach  to setting MREL’ 5   for details.  2.B   The amount that reflects risk - weighted capital and leverage buffers should be calculated to be  the amount of CET1 that a firm is required to maintain (in sterling terms) in addition to the largest  minimum of either the risk - weighted capital or leverage reg imes. 6   Where the firm is not subject to  the leverage regime, the amount will be equal to the applicable risk - weighted capital buffers and  paragraphs   2.6, 2.6A, 2.7 and 2.7A   will not be relevant.  1   June 2023:   The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to banking supervision .  2   July 2025 :   The Bank of England’s approach to setting a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) | Bank of  England .  3   See SS6/14 ‘Implementing CRD IV: capital buff ers’, April 2014:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2014/implementing - crdiv - capital - buffers - ss ,   and SS31/15 ‘The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process  (ICAAP) and the Supervisory Review and Ev aluation Process (SREP)’, July   2015:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2013/the - internal - capital - adequacy - assessment - process - and - supervisory - review - ss .  4   See SS45/15 ‘The UK leverage   ratio framework’,   February 2025 :   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2015/the - uk - leverage - ratio - framework - ss .  5   [ D eleted]  6   The risk - weighted capital minimum is Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A.   As for the leverage ratio framework,   the minimum leverage ratio capital  requirement applies to firms on the basis set out in the Leverage Ratio   -   Capital Requirements and Buffers Part of the PRA Rulebook .

MREL   –   buffers and Threshold Conditions   July 2025   2  Risk - weighted capital buffers  2.1   The PRA’s capital buffer framework comprises the Capital Requirements Directive (EU Directive  2019/878 amending Directive 2013/36/EU) and Capital Requirements Regulation (Regulation (EU)  2019/876 amending Regulation (EU) 575/2013) (jointly ‘CRD   V’) combine d buffer (which includes the  capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer, the Global Systemically Important  Institutions buffer (G - SII buffer), and the other systemically important institutions buffer (O - SII  buffer)   –   if applicable to a   firm), and the PRA buffer. 7  2.2   [ Deleted ]  2.2A   The buffers are maintained in addition to minimum risk - weighted capital requirements.  2.3   If a firm does not have, or expects that it will not have, sufficient CET1, in addition to   any own  funds and liabilities counted towards its MREL, to meet the amount of CET1 calculated in paragraph  2.B, the firm will be considered to have used, or be about to use, the buffers of the regime where  the total amount of capital required   to meet   minimum requirements plus buffers (risk - weighted  capital or   leverage) is largest .  2.4   Where that regime is the CRD IV regime, the firm should notify the PRA as soon as practicable,  consistent with Fundamental Rule 7, 8   explaining why this has happened or is expected to happen.  The firm can expect enhanced supervisory action and should prepare a capital restoration plan. If  the PRA is not satisfied with the capital restoration plan,   or with the firm’s reasons for the shortfall,  it will consider using its firm - specific powers under section 55M of the Financial Services and  Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to require a firm to take steps to strengthen its capital position. Such steps  could inclu de restricting or prohibiting distributions where that is appropriate and proportionate.  Distribut ions restrictions will not apply automatically.  2.5   Where a firm does not have sufficient CET1 to meet its minimum   risk - weighted   capital  requirements and the CRD   IV combined buffer, automatic restrictions on distributions will apply  under the Capital Buffers Part and firm - specific requirements. 9  Leverage ratio buffers  2.6   The PRA’s leverage ratio framework includes two leverage ratio buffers: a countercyclical  leverage ratio buffer (CCLB) and   an additional leverage ratio buffer (ALRB) . 10   The Leverage Ratio   –  Capital Requirements and Buffers Part of the PRA Rulebook sets out the calculation of the CCLB, the  ALRB ,   and the related obligations when these buffers are set by the PRA.  2.6A   The buffers are maintained in addition to minimum leverage requirements.  2.7   The PRA expects firms not to meet the amount of CET1 calculated in paragraph 2.B with any  CET1 capital counted towards their MREL.  2.7A If a firm does not, or expects that it will not, have sufficient CET1, in addition to any own funds  and liabilities counted towards MREL, to meet the amount of CET1 calculated in paragraph 2.B, the  firm will be considered to have used, or be about to   use, the buffers of the regime under which the  7   See PS17/15   ‘Assessing capital adequa cy under Pillar 2’,   August 2015:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2015/assessing - capital - adequacy - under - pillar - 2 .  8   Fundamental Rule 7 states that a firm must deal with its regulators in an open and cooperative way and must disclose to the P RA  appropriately anything relating to the firm of which the PRA would reasonably expect notice.  9   [ D elete d ]  10   See   SS45/15 ‘The UK leverage ratio framework’,   February 2025 :   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2015/the - uk - leverage - ratio - framework - ss .

MREL   –   buffers and Threshold Conditions   July 2025   3  total amount of capital required to meet minimum requirements plus buffers (risk - weighted capital  or leverage) is largest.  3   Threshold Conditions  3.1   The PRA’s statutory Threshold Conditions, which set out the minimum requirements that firms  must meet in order to be permitted to carry on the regulated activities in which they engage, are  designed to promote safety and soundness and are crucial to the op eration of the PRA’s regulatory  regime.  3.2   Firms should expect the PRA to investigate whether any firm in breach or likely breach of its  MREL is failing, or likely to fail, to satisfy the Threshold Conditions, with a view to taking further  action as necessary. However, a breach or likely breach by   a firm of its MREL does not automatically  mean that the PRA will consider the firm is failing, or likely to fail, to satisfy Threshold Conditions.  4   Transitional arrangements  4.1   In the statement of policy on its approach to setting MREL, the Bank, as UK resolution authority,  sets out the transitional arrangements that firms may be subject to . To ensure that firms make  progress towards meeting their end - state requirements, the Bank expects to direct relevant firms to  also meet an interim MREL. Please refer to   Section 9   of the Bank statement of policy for these  transitional arrangements. 11  4.2   The PRA will apply the MREL buffer   policy ( Chapter 2 )   and Threshold Conditions polic y (Chapter  3)   in respect of MREL set by the Bank with respect to both interim and end - state   MREL  requirements.  4.3   If a firm expects that it will not meet its interim or end - state MREL at the end of the relevant  transitional period it should notify the PRA promptly and should expect the PRA to investigate  whether the firm is failing or likely to fail to satisfy Thresho ld Conditions with a view to taking further  action as necessary. However, a firm being likely to not meet its interim or end - state MREL at the  end of the relevant transitional period   will not automatically mean the PRA will consider the firm is  failing or   likely to fail to meet Threshold Conditions.  4.4   If a firm expects that it will not have sufficient CET1 to meet its interim or end - state MREL and  its buffers at the end of the relevant transitional period, it should notify the PRA promptly. The PRA  may consider requiring the firm to take steps to streng then its capital position.  11   [ D elete d ]

MREL   –   buffers and Threshold Conditions   July 2025   4  Appendix   Supervisory Statement   updates  This annex outlines changes made to SS16/16 since its publication in PS30/16 ‘The minimum  requirement for own funds and eligible   liabilities (MREL)   –   buffers and Threshold Conditions’ 12   in  November 2016.  2025  2 2   July 2025  This SS was updated in 2025   via   the   L ow   I mpact   A mendments   P rocess   to   refresh links and reference  to the Bank’s and the PRA’s publications, and to reflect the current practice.  2020  28 December 2020  This SS was updated in 2020 following the publica tion of Policy Statement (PS) 26/20   ‘Capital  Requirements Directive V’. 13   It was updated to remove references to the SRB and replace with the  O - SII buffer. This reflects that the PRA, in line with CRD   V, will now require additional loss  absorbency of RFBs and large building societies via the O - SII buffer.  December 2017  This SS was updated foll owing the publication of PS30/16   ‘The minimum requirement for own funds  and eligible liabilities (MREL)   –   buffers’ 14   to clarify that the expectations set in SS16/16 are not  intended to create a different buffer requirement from that which is usable in the going concern  regime. Specifically:  •   paragraphs 2.A and 2.B have been added, and paragraph 2.2 has been deleted to clarify the  PRA’s expectations regarding the amount of CET1 that firms should not count simultaneously  towards buffer requirements and MREL (ie an amount equal to the buffer requ irement which is  usable in the going concern regime);  •   paragraphs 2.2A and 2.6A have been added to be explicit that buffers are maintained in  addition to the relevant minimum requirements;  •   paragraphs 2.3, 2.4 and 2.7 have been amended, and paragraph 2.7A has been added to clarify  the consequences of not maintaining sufficient CET1 to meet both the buffer requirement and  MREL; and  •   paragraphs 1.4, 2.5 and the title ‘Capital buffers’ have been updated to more consistently refer  to ‘risk - weighted capital’ as opposed to just ‘capital’.  12   December 2015:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/implementing - a - uk - leverage - ratio - framework .  13   December 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/capital - requirements - directive - v -  further - implementation .  14   July 2017:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/the - minimum - requirement - for - own - funds -  and - eligible - liabilities - mrel - buffers - and - threshold .


