---
title: "SS1815/ – Ss1815 June 2023"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2023/ss1815-june-2023.pdf"
---

# SS1815/ – Ss1815 June 2023

Supervisory Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor protection  June 2023  (Updating March 2021)

Depositor protection   June 2023   3  Supervisory Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor protection  June 2023  (Updating   March 2021 )  ©   Bank of England 202 3  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate |   London EC2R 6DA

Contents  Introduction   1  Eligibility   1  Disclosure   2  Marking eligible deposits and accounts   and transiti onal issues   6  Temporary high balances   8  Dormant accounts   –   information requirements   8  Calculation of levies   8  Single Custom er View   9  In - flight transactions   12  Continuity of Access   14  Scope of depositor protection requirements   14  Change in the   deposit protection limit   14  UK withdrawal from the EU   15  Annex   -   S S18/15   –   updates   16

Depositor protection   June 2023   1  Introduction  This supervisory statement (SS) sets out the expectations of the Prudential Regulation   Authority  (PRA) on deposit - takers with regards to the Depositor Protection rules. 1  This statement is intended to be read together with the rules contained in the Depositor  Protection Part of the PRA Rulebook.  This statement is relevant to deposit - takers ( hereafter,‘firms’) to which these rules apply.  By setting out the PRA’s expectations with regards to the Depositor Protection rules, this  statement may help to minimise the adverse effect that the failure of a PRA firm could have on  financial stability and   enhance depositor confidence and therefore contribute towards the safety  and soundness of firms.  Eligibility  The provisions in Depositor Protection 2.2 determine whether a deposit is an eligible deposit.  Regarding Depositor Protection   1.3A , a firm   must confirm in SCV field 39   of Depositor Protection  12.9   that a deposit has been assigned to   a UK or Gibraltar establishment.  The definition of deposit in the Depositor Protection Part includes savings products evidenced  by   a certificate of deposit made o ut to a named person and which existed in the UK, Gibraltar or a  Member State of the EU on 2 July 2014. For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA expects the certificate  itself to have existed on 2 July 2014 (not merely the product).  The definition of deposit ex cludes a credit balance where the principal is not repayable at par.  The PRA   considers   that, for a deposit to be ‘repayable at par’, the depositor must be entitled to  repayment in full of sums deposited. For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers that c apital at  risk structured deposits are not classed as deposits for the purposes of deposit protection.  However, where the depositor accepts investment risk on the calculation of interest on a  deposit because it is, for example, determined by reference to a   financial index, but the principal is  repayable at par, the PRA expects that such product will generally be classed as deposits for the  purposes of deposit protection.  The PRA expects that a deposit may generally be considered as being ‘repayable at par’   if  repayment of it is subject to the deduction of fees by the firm.  Further   information   on the scope of depositors eligible for Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS)  protection   from 3 July 2015 is set out in   Table A .  Regarding Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(j), it i s acceptable for firms to rely upon a reasonable  estimate provided by the local authority of its annual budget, which could for example be based on  the previous year’s budget. The PRA expects a firm to take reasonable steps to   ascertain   a local  authority’s   budget, but where a firm has been unable to determine if a local authority is eligible, it  should be treated as a public authority.  1   This   SS   has been   updated   a number of times. S ee Annex for full details.

Depositor protection   June 2023   2  The PRA considers that the fact that a person has created a charge or equivalent security  interest over his/her   interest   in   a deposit does not (in most cases) prevent it being treated as a  deposit for the purposes of the Depositor Protection rules, even where the person who has taken  the security interest is the DGS member with whom the money has been deposited.  Table A   Eligibility for DGS cover of certain classes of depositors   from 3 July 2015  Depositor   Eligible or ineligible from 3 July 2015  Natural persons   Eligible  Corporates   Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the   Corporate   falls  under any other exclusion)  Partnerships   Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the partnership falls  under any other exclusion)  Mutual associations/unincorporated  associations  Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the  association falls under any other exclusion)  Credit institutions   (banks, building societies and credit  unions)  Ineligible  Investment firms, insurance undertakings and  reinsurance undertakings  Ineligible  Collective investment schemes   Ineligible  Pension schemes and retirement funds   Ineligible with the   exception of deposits by:  •   personal pension schemes;  •   stakeholder pension schemes; and  •   occupational pension schemes (of micro, small or  medium   enterprises)  Public authorities   Ineligible with the exception of small local authorities  Persons whose claim ari ses from transactions in  connection with which there has been a criminal  conviction for money laundering  Ineligible  In the event that identity verification has not been carried out in accordance with the relevant  anti - money laundering   requirements referred to in Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(f) ahead of the firm’s  compensation date, the PRA considers that   Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(f) would allow   the relevant  i nsolvency   p ractitioner appointed by the court   to   facilitate the identity verification for the purposes  of determining eligibility for FSCS   (Financial Services Compensation Scheme)   protection . 2  Disclosure  This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms wil l disclose information about the  relevant deposit guarantee scheme and is intended to be read together with the rules contained in  Chapters 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the Depositor Protection Part of the PRA Rulebook.  The   information   sheet  Rules   relating to the ‘information sheet’ that must be provided to depositors are set out in  Depositor Protection Chapters 16 and 17.  2   Insolvency   practitioners should consider in line with the insolvency practitioner’s objectives and responsibilities under Section 99 of  the Banking Act 2009.

Depositor protection   June 2023   3  Application  The general principle is that rules in Chapters 16 and 17 of the Depositor Protection Part apply  both per depositor   and per account. For example, under Chapter 16, in respect of each account to  be opened and each intending depositor on that account, firms must provide an information sheet  to, and obtain acknowledgement of receipt from, the intending depositor before en tering into each  deposit - taking contract with that intending depositor. For the avoidance of doubt, the requirement  to provide the information sheet to, and obtain acknowledgement from, a particular intending  depositor (including for a joint account) is e ngaged where that   intending depositor is entering into a  deposit - taking contract and that deposit will be held by a DGS member in an establishment in the UK  (or a UK firm’s establishment in Gibraltar).  In the case of joint account holders, provision of the   information sheet and other information  under Chapters 16 and 17 can be in line with wider firm practices around dealings with multiple  parties on joint   accounts   (particularly on entering into contracts with, and providing account  statements to, multiple   parties), subject to the above principle.  In respect of Depositor Protection 17.2,   where the statement of account covers multiple  accounts it is acceptable for the firm to provide a single information sheet with that statement.  Whether a firm’s deposit - ta king contract is an overall “umbrella” arrangement or  product/account - specific   depends on the firm’s contractual arrangements.  Where the account holder is not the beneficiary of DGS cover and the firm does not have a  direct relationship with the beneficiar y, the PRA expects firms to comply with information providing  obligations   with respect to the account holder, but does not consider information provision  requirements should apply with respect to the underlying beneficiary.  The disclosure requirements refe rred to in this statement apply regardless of the sophistication  of the depositor.  Information sheet and the acknowledgement of receipt  Depositor Protection 16.2(3) states that a firm must obtain an acknowledgement of receipt of  the information sheet   from each intending depositor before entering into a contract on deposit -  taking   where that deposit will be h eld by a DGS member in an establishment in the UK (or a UK  firm’s establishment in Gibraltar). In   order to meet this requirement, prior to the cont ract being  entered into, firms should obtain one of the following:  (a)   the intending depositor’s signature on the information sheet. In this case, the PRA considers it  good practice for firms to provide the depositor with a copy of the information sheet;  (b)   the i ntending depositor’s signature on an acknowledgement contained in a separate document  to the information sheet (which would allow the depositor to retain the information sheet for  their reference);  (c)   the intending depositor’s acknowledgement in a   separate ‘tick box’ in the account opening  documentation;   or  (d)   the intending depositor’s express acknowledgement over the telephone.

Depositor protection   June 2023   4  Regarding options (b) and (c), the PRA considers it acceptable for the acknowledgement of  receipt to be contained in a separa te document from the information sheet. The PRA does not  consider it good practice for the information sheet to be included within other terms and conditions  (such as the deposit - taking contract). Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into online, t he  depositor should be provided with the information sheet and exclusions list and required to confirm  receipt of the information sheet, prior to the contract being entered into. In this scenario, an  electronic signature or ‘tick box’ is sufficient to meet   the requirement, in Depositor Protection  16.2(3), to obtain acknowledgement of receipt of the information sheet.  Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into over the telephone (ie, in accordance with  other distance contracting procedures), the infor mation in the information sheet and the exclusions  list may be provided, and the express acknowledgement of the intending depositor obtained, over  the telephone (option (d)). The information provided should include all the ‘basic information’ on  the inform ation sheet together with the relevant ‘additional information’. In such cases, the  information sheet and exclusions list should be provided to, and acknowledgement requested  (although not necessarily required) from, the depositor alongside other documenta tion to be issued  after the telephone call.  Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into in person in a branch, the PRA considers it  good practice for firms to obtain the intending depositor’s signature on the information sheet, by  way of acknowledgem ent (option (a)).  For child accounts where the deposit - taking contract is entered into by a parent or guardian,  the   PRA expects that the parent or guardian would be able to acknowledge receipt. Similarly, for  accounts where there is power of attorney, rece ipt may be acknowledged by the depositor’s  attorney.  The PRA also   does   not expect a new information sheet to be provided and acknowledged  where an existing customer a depositor is moved into a new account (eg at the end of a fixed rate  bond term), unless a   new deposit - taking contract is entered into.  Record - keeping  In retaining records of intending depositor acknowledgements, the PRA expects firms to follow  existing record keeping procedures for other account opening documentation.  Trademarks   and FSCS Badge  Where the information sheet states that firms should ‘insert all trading names which operate  under the same licence’, the PRA expects firms to include all brands and trading names that fall  under the same banking licence. Firms may include the relevant br and logos and the FSCS badge,  which can be found on the FSCS website. 3  Amendments to the information sheet  Firms may make minor formatting changes to the information sheet and exclusions list. For  example,   this   could mean changing the format for mobile ap plications where it may be difficult to  convey the information sheet on a small screen.   The PRA does not expect firms to redraft the  wording of the information sheet.  3   www.fscs.org.uk/industry/fscs - badge - agreement .

Depositor protection   June 2023   5  For the avoidance of doubt, all of the ‘basic information’ in Annex 1 of the Depositor Pr otection  rules needs to be provided in the information sheet along with the ‘additional information’. Limited  optionality   is indicated in Annex 1 by square brackets and/or marked as ‘only where applicable’.  Provided that the information sheet and exclusion s list are clearly distinguished, the PRA does  not consider   it   necessary for the information sheet and exclusions list to be printed on separate  pages.  Method of communication  For the   purposes   of Depositor Protection 21.1(3), the information should be comm unicated in  a way that brings it to the attention of the depositor (rather than depositors generally). Unless  otherwise stated, the PRA expects this to involve proactive communication to the specific depositor  rather than passive display of information.  Wh ere a firm has reasonable grounds to believe that a depositor is not resident at the address  last   known to the firm as the address of the depositor, the PRA expects the firm to make reasonable  enquiries to ascertain up - to - date contact details of the deposi tor (in line with firms’ obligations  under the FCA’s Banking: Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS)) in order to comply with the  information - providing obligations.  Confirmation that deposits are eligible on account   statements  Under Depositor Protection 17 .1, a firm must confirm that deposits are eligible deposits on a  depositor’s statement of account. The PRA expects firms to consider both the eligibility of the  depositor and the eligibility of the deposit when making this assessment (except where this is   not  reasonably   practicable , for example, due to a lack of information as to whether a deposit has arisen  out of a transaction in connection with which there has been a criminal conviction for money  laundering). The PRA does not consider it acceptable if th e confirmation on the depositor’s  statement of account is conditional (ie ‘your deposits are eligible if you do not fall within the  exclusions’) as the PRA expects firms to make this assessment.  For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA does not expect the confi rmation on the statement of  account to be changed where an   account falls into negative or nil balance, assuming a deposit on  that account would be an eligible deposit.  Compensation information: branches and websites  If information required to be disclosed under Depositor Protection 23.7 and 23.8 is displayed  prominently on the front page of the firm’s website or mobile application or a pop - up box upon  logging   on to the website or mobile application, the PRA expects th at the requirement to  communicate in a way that best brings the information to depositors’ attention will have been  satisfied.  The PRA considers that a DGS member will comply with Depositor Protection 23.4, 23.5, 23.6,  23.7   and   23.8, if it displays the rel evant compensation sticker and/or compensation poster produced  by the FSCS in accordance with the requirements of those rules.  References to the DGS in advertising  In Depositor Protection 18.1,   the   PRA considers ‘advertising materials’ to include any mater ials  containing an invitation to make a deposit, or information that is intended or might reasonably be  presumed to be intended to lead directly or indirectly to the making of a deposit; and includes any  means of bringing such an invitation or such informa tion to the notice of the person or persons to  whom it is addressed.

Depositor protection   June 2023   6  Other references to the DGS  The PRA expects firms to update or, where appropriate pursuant to Depositor Protection 18.1,  delete any existing references to the DGS in advertising materials , where changes in PRA rules mean  the information is either no longer accurate or permitted.  Disclosure and other requirements relating to transfers, mergers or conversions  For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers Depositor Protection 19.1 to   apply to transfers  of engagement taking place between credit unions.  Marking eligible deposits and accounts   and   transitional issues  This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms will mark eligible deposits and  accounts   and is intended to be rea d together with Chapters 11 and 13 of the Depositor Protection  Part.  Requirement to mark eligible deposits  Depositor Protection 11.1 sets out that a firm must mark eligible deposits in a way that allows  for immediate identification of such deposits. The PR A considers that firms can meet this  requirement   in a number of ways, including but not limited to:  (a)   marking eligible (and/or ineligible) deposits at core systems level (ie flagging at account level);  (b)   a separate file showing eligible (and/or ineligible) de posits; or  (c)   using the Single Customer View (SCV) file and   exclusions view file .  For the purposes of meeting Depositor Protection 11.1, the PRA considers the marking of  eligible deposits may be achieved by marking accounts of eligible depositors which conta in eligible  deposits . For the avoidance   of doubt, where such an account   has a nil   balance , or the balance  becomes negative, the PRA does not expect firms to remove the eligible deposit marker.  The PRA’s preferred approach to marking is for firms to produce   a list of eligible accounts and a  list of ineligible accounts, or clearly be able to separately identify both within core systems. If a firm  can only produce/show one of these, the PRA expects the firm to give   confirmation   that the  remaining accounts not   marked are ineligible or eligible (whichever are not marked).  In both options 4.2(b) and 4.2(c), the expectation is for files to be produced or updated on a  rolling daily basis or where no rolling daily files are updated or produced, capable of being gener ated  immediately following any request from the PRA or the FSCS. Such an approach to SCV and  exclusions view file   under 4.2(c) is not a requirement under the depositor protection rules, but is an  option for firms to use to meet Depositor Protection 11.1. T he requirements around the timing and  content of SCV and   exclusions view file   production remains as specified in the relevant rules.  Deleted.  For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers the separate file (generated under whichever  option) only need   contain a list of eligible and/or ineligible unique identification account numbers  and does not need to include any customer or balance information.  Deleted.

Depositor protection   June 2023   7  The options   above   would similarly apply to Depositor Protection 11.2.  The PRA expects that in comp liance with the requirement in Depositor Protection 11.1 to 11.2  to mark eligible deposits/accounts ‘in a way that allows for the immediate identification of such  deposits’, a firm must be able to make the details of such eligible and/or ineligible account s  (separately identified) available to the PRA or FSCS in a format consistent with the relevant rule and  this statement and within twelve hours from the point of a request from the PRA or the FSCS.  The PRA does not consider that any aggregation of data on   a per depositor/legal entity basis is  necessary to meet the marking requirements.  Requirement to mark eligible accounts  Depositor Protection 13.2 sets out that a firm must mark accounts which hold:  (i)   eligible deposits of natural persons and micro, small   and medium - sized enterprises (SMEs); and  (ii)   such deposits that would be eligible if they had not been made (ie are held in an account) at a  branch of the firm located outside of the   UK or Gibraltar.  The PRA considers that firms can meet the Depositor Protecti on 13.2 requirements set out  above in a   number   of ways, including but not limited to:  (a)   marking relevant natural person and SME accounts at core systems level (ie flagging at account  level);  (b)   a separate file showing relevant accounts; or  (c)   using the SCV and   ex clusions view file   (to meet requirement 4.12(i) only).  The PRA expects that in compliance with the requirement in Depositor Protection 13.2 to mark  accounts ‘in a way that allows for the immediate identification of such accounts’, a firm must be able  to ma ke the details of such marked accounts available to the PRA or FSCS in a format consistent with  the relevant rule and this statement, and within 24 hours from the point of a request from the PRA  or the FSCS.  If firms wish to use options 4.13(a) – 4.13(c) to   meet the marking requirement, the same  considerations as in   paragraphs   4.5 to 4.7 would apply.  Requirement 4.12(ii) cannot be met by 4.13(c) as SCV files and   exclusions view files   do not  capture non - eligible deposits.  For a firm marking an account under De positor Protection 13.2, the PRA considers that an  overall   marker   of natural person/SME status, rather than differentiation between natural persons,  micro, small and medium - sized enterprises, would be sufficient.  Where   an   account   is subject to marking unde r more than one of Depositor Protection 11.1,  11.2 and 13.2, the PRA expects that a firm would be able to identify the account for   each and all of  those requirements.  Information requirements during transition period  Deleted.

Depositor protection   June 2023   8  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Temporary high balances  For the avoidance of doubt, firms are not required to mark or verify balances qualifying as  temporary high balances under PRA rules. This is for the FSCS to determine, in accordance with   PRA  rules, after default.  D ormant accounts   –   information requirements  This chapter has been deleted in its entirety .  Calculation of levies  Depositor   Protection   43 sets out the PRA’s rule for calculating the FSCS tariff base for deposit -  takers (the Class A tariff base). Depositor Protection 43.2 requires firms to do this calculation on the  basis of covered deposits from the SCV file. Depositor Protection 43.1 req uires firms to include the  total balance of deposits in any account which holds funds to which the account holder is not  absolutely   entitled , or which are safeguarded funds, under the rules .   Any funds which the firm has  confirmed are not covered deposits m ay be excluded.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Deleted.

Depositor protection   June 2023   9  Single Customer V iew  Submission requirements  Depositor Protection 12.1 and 12.2 set out that a firm must provide an SCV file and an  exclusions view file   to the PRA or the FSCS within 24 hours of a deposit becoming an unavailable  deposit or request by the PRA or the FSCS. The PRA considers that the beginning of the 24 - hour  period can be taken as the end of the business day on which the request was made. Th e PRA or the  FSCS may request the submission of an SCV file and   exclusions view file   at any time, including as part  of the business as usual review programme. As such, firms should be ready and able to submit SCV  and   exclusions view files   to the PRA and FS CS upon request, and within the time period set out in the  depositor protection rules.  The PRA considers that firms may meet Rules   12 .4   and   12.7   using a range of options based on  their size and volume of deposits/accounts, including externally provided SCV   systems, internal  bespoke SCV systems, or widely available spreadsheet software (eg Excel), as long as in all cases the  rule requirements are met, including the automatic identification of covered deposits.  Keys and codes  Depositor Protection   14 . 7   sets ou t that firms must provide information on any keys or codes  used by the firm internally. These keys and codes can provide useful information for the FSCS on  how   different   accounts should be treated, including whether there is any reason why the account is  n ot fit for straight through payout. For example, this could be the case if a depositor needs a letter in  a different format or if post sent to the depositor’s house was   returned because the depositor was  no longer at that address. The PRA expects firms to   consider the purpose for which the FSCS will use  this information and consider what information the FSCS may find useful.  Definition of material change  Depositor Protection 14.3 sets out what a firm must do after a material change in its SCV  system. The PR A considers that a material change would include any change that would have a  material impact on the firm’s SCV system. For example, there is likely to be a material change in a  firm’s SCV system upon a merger or acquisition of a deposit book, or the intro duction of a new IT  system that relates to the firm’s SCV system.  Deleted.  Deleted.  Depositor Protection 14.3   and   15.3, set out that a firm must notify the PRA and the FSCS within  three months of a material change to its systems to meet marking   and   SCV   req uirements, including  an attestation from the firm’s governing body that its systems are compliant with the relevant PRA  requirements. The PRA and the FSCS may also request a marking effectiveness report, SCV  effectiveness report at any time, and firms shou ld be ready and able to submit such reports to the  PRA and FSCS promptly upon request. The PRA may then consider if further verification of a firm’s  measures to meet the relevant requirements   is appropriate.  8.7A The PRA considers that the implementation o f   an   adjustment to the deposit protection limit is  not a material change for the purposes of Depositor Protection 14.3 and 15.3.  Deleted.  SCV file format

Depositor protection   June 2023   10  Where firms do not   hold the data required to be included in the SCV or   exclusions view file   or  the data are not applicable, corresponding fields in the SCV and   exclusions view file   should remain  empty. Even if these fields are empty, the PRA expects these fields to remain in the SCV file and the  exclusions view file , so that the files are standar d in length. Fields should always appear in the same  order set out in Depositor Protection   12.9. Completion of all fields is mandatory unless otherwise  indicated (ie not applicable or not held by the firm (where not mandatory)). Firms must complete all  fie lds where data are mandatory, or where applicable and held by the   firm.  Any   relevant   additional information concerning data in the SCV or   exclusions view file ,   such as  the unverified nature of any data, should be included in Field 36 (as set out in Deposit or Protection  12.9).  Depositor Protection 12.4 states that firms must submit their information in a format which is  readily   compatible with the FSCS’s system. There are three formats that are considered compatible:  •   Format   one: a firm should send through th e information in four files. File one should contain  ‘Customer details’, file two should contain ‘Contact details’, file three should contain ‘Details of  account(s)’ and file four should contain ‘Aggregate balance details’.  •   Format two: a firm should   send through the information in two files. One file should contain  ‘Customer details’, ‘Contact details’ and ‘Aggregate balance details’ and one file should contain  the ‘Details of account(s)’.  •   Format three: a firm should send through one file which contai ns ‘Customer details’, ‘Contact  details’, ‘Aggregate balance details’ and ‘Details of account(s)’.  Firms should use one of these three formats for both the SCV and   exclusions view file . They do  not have to use the   same   format for each.  For all of these for mats, a ‘single line format’ should be used. This means that customer  information should all be kept on the same line. Where depositors have more than one account, this  information can be on separate lines.  Where there is more than one file, each depositor   should be linked with their unique identifier  (the single customer view record number).  For file types which do not automatically separate fields a ‘|’ should be used as delimiter. For  example, this would apply to .txt files.  File names should follow the   format FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSSCVFormatW.xxx for a SCV  file or   FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSEXCFormatW.xxx for an   exclusions view file . Firms should insert  their FRN number and the date and time that the SCV file was created. ‘FormatW’   should be  replaced with inform ation about what is contained within the file according to the following:  •   For format one, this should be four files called ‘Customerdetails’, ‘Contactdetails’,  ‘Detailsofaccount’ and ‘Aggregatebalancedetails’.  •   For format two, this should be called ‘Details ofaccount’ and ‘Customerandaccountinformation’.  •   For format three, this should be called ‘Full’.

Depositor protection   June 2023   11  Where   Depositor Protection 12.9 does not specify a numeric form, firms can submit in an  alphanumeric or numeric form.  Secure electronic submission  Depositor Pro tection 12.4 specifies that the SCV and   exclusions view file s   should be sent by  secure   electronic   transmission. This can be via Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) or via web portal  upload. The details of both methods are available through the FSCS websit e.  Name  When completing the SCV or   exclusions view file , firms should consider the forename and  surname fields as   mandatory   for natural persons. For companies, only the surname field is  mandatory.  National identification (ID)  Where firms hold identificatio n numbers for depositors on file, they should include this in the  SCV or   exclusions view file   under field 11 in Depositor Protection 12.9. Where a firm holds  identification numbers other than the National Insurance number or passport number of the  deposito r, the firm should explain what type of identification number it holds and provide the  unique number. Examples of national ID include a photocard national identity card or a driving  licence.  Country where account is domiciled  Field 39 in Depositor Protecti on 12.9 requires firms to provide information in the SCV or  exclusions view file   on the location of the branch where the account is held. This may be different to  the country where the   depositor has their address.   D e posits are only   eligible   if they are held by a  DGS member in an establishment in the UK (or a UK firm’s establishment in Gibraltar). Firms with  only UK branches should indicate that the deposits are held in the United Kingdom using ISO 3166 - 1  (‘GBR’). Eligible deposits held in a   Gibraltar branch should be marked (‘GIB’).  Format of   exclusions view file  For inactive accounts ,   beneficiary   accounts,   or accounts holding safeguarded funds,   the PRA  expects firms to use the same format as the SCV file structure and provide the same inform ation as  required for the SCV file.  For beneficiary accounts   and accounts holding safeguarded funds , the PRA expects firms to  supply details of the contact for the client/trust   account , rather than the underlying beneficiary.  Dormant accounts  Dormant accou nts that meet the definition in the Dormant Banks and Building Societies  Accounts Act 2008 should be placed in the   exclusions view file . The PRA would expect all such  accounts, even if not transferred to a dormant account provider, to be excluded from the   SCV file.  For otherwise - active accounts, it should be recorded in field 38 of the SCV file, whether there  has been any transaction relating to the deposit within the 24 months prior to production of the  single customer view. The PRA and the FSCS recognise   that for some accounts such inactivity may  not be indicative of possible dormancy (eg fixed term accounts), and the FSCS will use judgement in  the paying out of such deposits within applicable timeframes.  Calculating interest

Depositor protection   June 2023   12  Depositor Protection 5.9 sets   out the requirements for calculating interest. The PRA expects  firms to apply the interest accrued to date regardless of the date that it is usually   credited to  balances in the SCV and   exclusions view file .  Calculating the return on certain structured depo sits  In the case of structured deposits firms may not be able to accurately predict the return  because the   calculation   of the return is based on the growth of an index as at the maturity date of  the structured deposit. If that is the case, firms should flag this type of product in the SCV file and  only add interest accrued prior to the product start date and any minimum r eturn to the account  balance in the SCV file.  Balances  Accounts which may contain eligible deposits but are in negative balance should also be  recorded in the SCV file and   exclusions view file . Fields 42, 45, and 47 of the file should record a  negative bal ance with a ‘ – ’ preceding it. Field 42 and 45 should reflect any interest due to be paid by  the depositor. Field 48 should list a zero balance for accounts in negative balance. Fields 50 and 51  are just in relation to positive balances, so any accounts wit h negative balances should not be  included in calculations related to these fields.  The aggregate balance and compensatable amount in the SCV file should be calculated in  relation to the accounts included in the SCV file only. The aggregate balance and com pensatable  amount in the exclusions view file should be calculated in relation to accounts included in the  exclusions view file only.  In - flight transactions  This chapter provides more information on the PRA’s expectations concerning the treatment of  in - fli ght transactions covered under Depositor Protection 12.14. The PRA understands that each  firm’s approach may differ depending on the timing of end of day processes, speed to produce the  SCV file and the type of access to each payment system. The PRA will a llow each firm the freedom to  satisfy Depositor Protection 12.14 within the scope of their own processes and external  relationships. Therefore this SS sets out the PRA’s expectations in general terms. It does not provide  detail or prescribe the settlement   processes   between banks (between settlement banks or between  settlement banks and their agency/customer banks). Settlement bank and agency/customer bank in  this context can refer to all deposit - takers, including building societies and credit unions.  Firms   should   consider   the information in this chapter alongside their own processes and  relationships with the financial market infrastructures (FMIs) or settlement banks. They should apply  this guidance to each payment type accordingly. This will help ensure co nsistency across the industry  in a transfer of deposit book or an FSCS payout.  The PRA would expect the same process to apply for payments both where the failed firm is a  direct member of a payment scheme and where it is an indirect member of a payment sys tem,  where possible.  What are in - flight transactions?  The PRA considers an in - flight transaction to be a payment where not all the underlying cash  movements   comprising   the complete transaction are complete.  In - flight transactions may be incoming payments to depositors’ accounts for which the firm has  not yet   received   value but which are reflected on the depositor’s balance, and/or outgoing

Depositor protection   June 2023   13  payments which have been reflected on the depositor’s account but for wh ich the firm may not yet  have made a corresponding outgoing payment. There may also be in - flight transactions that have  neither settled (or, in the case of an indirect member, been received by the depositors’ firm) nor  been reflected on depositors’ account s.  In - flight transactions may arise where there is deferred net settlement. There may also be in -  flight transactions arising where indirect members of payment schemes do not have a real - time flow  of settled funds from their settlement bank.  At the point of   resolution or insolvency there is likely to be a number of payments still moving  through payment systems that have either not yet settled at bank level or been credited or debited  into   depositors’ accounts. Depositor Protection 12.14 sets out how these in - flight payments must be  treated in the SCV file. This rule is intended to ensure, in so far as possible, that the balance a  depositor can see at the end of the business day matches the balance in the SCV file. In - flight  transactions will be dealt with by   the insolvency practitioner or administrator after a resolution.  However, it is important that firms understand how to treat in - flight transactions in the SCV file to  ensure a consistent approach. There will need to be a process of reconciliation between t he  insolvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS and any acquiring firm (as relevant).  How settlement banks should respond  Settlement banks should have processes in place to support the transfer (part or whole) of its  customer/agency bank’s ( indirect   member) deposit book in a resolution, as appropriate. This should  include the provision of continued access to their services. Settlement banks will also be expected to  comply with previously published guidance. 4  Principles  All payments for which funds ha ve been received by the depositor’s firm intraday should be  reflected on the   depositor’s   accounts and therefore in the account balance field in the SCV or  exclusions view file   by close of business.  Some payments may be reflected on depositors’ accounts be fore they have been settled  between firms due to timings in payment systems or internal processes. Some timing differences will  be intraday and some may go across multiple days. Where these payments have already   been  credited or debited to a depositor’s ac count, even if interbank settlement has not yet completed,  the value should be included as part of a depositor’s compensatable balance. For example, if a  depositor has made a debit card payment which has reduced the amount of their available balance,  this   payment should be excluded from the compensatable amount in the SCV file.  For payments that have not been reflected on accounts and where the depositor does not  continue to have access to their account it is possible that these payments will need to settle   and  then be returned as unapplied payments. Firms should consider if this impacts on their processes.  Depositor Protection 12.14 states that payments debited from a depositor’s account should be  excluded   from the SCV and   exclusions view file   regardless of   whether the firm has sent the value  itself. However, where possible, payments debited that have not yet been entered into the payment  system should be reapplied to a depositor’s account. For example, amounts debited may have been  4   PRA Supervisory Statement SS12/13, ‘Settlement bank exposures to customer banks: manag ement of the risks’, April 2013:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2013/settlement - bank - exposures - to - customer - banks -  management - of - the - risks - ss .

Depositor protection   June 2023   14  credited to a suspense ac count. This will then form part of a depositor’s compensation balance in  the SCV or   exclusions view file .  The PRA recognises that there will be a small number of payments that are not known about at  the point of resolution but where the depositor has alre ady committed to making that payment by  taking goods or services in exchange. Any irrevocable debits (for example, overseas debit card  transactions) that have not been reflected on the SCV file may need to go through a process of  reconciliation with the in solvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS and any acquiring firm (as  relevant).  SCV file timing  When creating their SCV systems, firms should work on the basis that the point in time on  which they should base their account snapshot for the purpose o f in - flight transactions will be close  of   business   on the effective date of the relevant insolvency order issued by the court or the relevant  transfer instrument issued by the Bank of England, or the date on which a request is made by the  FSCS or the PRA.  Relationship with payment schemes  The PRA recognises that in - flight transactions may carry implications for firms’ relationships  with payment schemes. The Bank is working closely with UK payment systems and   their   members to  identify practical issues that b anks’ interaction with payment systems could raise when we are  seeking to resolve a member bank. Other than the in - flight transaction treatment rules, there are no  direct requirements on firms to develop additional measures in terms of payment systems in  r elation to the Depositor Protection requirements.  Continuity of Access  This chapter has been deleted in its entirety.  Scope of depositor protection   requirements  The Depositor Protection Part applies to all firms.  The PRA would consider waivers or   modifications to SCV rules in accordance with section 138A  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) if compliance with a   rule would be unduly  burdensome or would not meet the purpose for which the rule was made, and the direction would  not adv ersely affect the advancement of any of the PRA objectives (the statutory tests).  Relevant factors that the PRA would consider in judging whether the statutory tests had been  met include: the relevance of the requirements to the wider resolution   approach of the firm; the  proximity to the firm to failure; and the level of transactional and instant access accounts held by the  firm. The overall size of the firm, for example, in terms of number of accounts containing eligible  deposits and the amount o f covered deposits held by a firm, would also be a relevant  considerations, including any forward - looking business plans.  These factors would be assessed in the round so the PRA’s decision on any application for a  waiver or   modification   would depend on the   individual circumstances of the firm applying.  Deleted.  Change in the deposit protection limit

Depositor protection   June 2023   15  This chapter has been deleted in its entireity.  UK withdrawal from the EU  This chapter has been deleted in its entirety.

Depositor protection   June 2023   16  A nnex   -   SS18/15   –   updates  This a nnex   details changes made to SS18 /15 following its initial publication in   April   2015 following  PS6/15 ‘ Depositor and dormant account protection ’ . 5  2023  June 2023  The SS was updated following publication of PS 7 /2 3   –   Depositor Protection . 6  Changes to   SS18/15 consulted upon as part of CP 9 / 22 :  •   Chapter 2   –   paragraph 2. 9 was amended to remove the reference to the Deposit Guarantee  Scheme Directive.  •   Chapter 3   –   paragraphs 3.1 and 3.27 were updated to   remove references to Chapters 12 and  13 which have now been deleted as the UK has withdrawn from the EU and the January  2017 change in deposit protection limit from £75,000 to £85,000 has been completed.  •   Chapter 4   –   paragraphs 4. 2, 4.3, 4.5, 4.13 and 4.16   were amended to replace references to  ‘ exclusions file ’   to   ‘ exclusions view file ’ . Paragra p h 4.2 was also amended to clarify that the  PRA doe s   not expect firms to remove the eligible deposit marker where an account has a nil  balance or the balance becomes   negative. Paragraphs 4.6, 4.8, 4.19, 4.20, 4.21, 4.22, 4.24,  4.25 and 4.26 were deleted as the relevant transitional period has expired.  •   Chapter   6 was deleted in its   entirety   to reflect rule changes.  •   Chapter   7   –   paragraph 7.1 was amended to reflect rule   changes and paragraph 7.4 was  deleted as it was a reference to chapter 13.  •   Chapter 8   –   paragraphs 8.1, 8.9, 8.10, 8.12, 8.16, 8.18, 8.19, 8.20, 8.21, 8.24, 8.26 and 8.28  were amended to replace references to   ‘ exclusions file ’   to   ‘ exclusions view   file ’ . In addition,  paragraphs 8.2 and 8.21 were amended to remove the reference to the spent transition  periods, paragraph 8.3 was updated to correct a cross - referencing error,   and   paragraphs 8.5,  8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 8.22, 8.23 were ame n ded or deleted to refle ct rule changes. A new paragraph  8.29 was added to aid interpretation of the rules.  •   Chapter 9   –   paragraphs 9.9 and 9.12 were amended to replace references to   ‘ exclusions file ’  to   ‘ exclusions view file ’ . Parag rap h 9.15 was amended to reflect rule changes.  •   Chapter 10 was deleted in its enti rety   to reflect rule changes.  •   Chapter 11   –   paragraphs 11.1, 11.2 and 11.5 were amended to reflect rules changes.  •   Chapter 12 was deleted in its   entirety   as the January 2017 change in deposit protection limit  from £75,000   to £85,000 has been completed.  •   Chapter 13 was deleted in its   entirety   as the UK has withdrawn from the EU.  5   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ps/2015/ps615.aspx .  6   June 2023:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2023/june/depositor - protection .

Depositor protection   June 2023   17  2021  March 2021  The SS was updated following publication of PS 4 /21 ‘Depositor protection: Identity verification’. 7  The update added paragraph 2.10 to introduce a new expectation that, in the event that identity  verification has not been carried out on a depositor or ultimate beneficiary ahead of the  compensation date,   the relevant insolvency practitioner would be allo wed to facilitate the identity  verification for the purposes of determining eligibility for FSCS protection, under PRA rules.  Minor changes have also been made to correct formatting errors and improve readability.  2020  December 2020  As a result of extensi ons to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU ,   some updates were required to this SS  as compared to the near - final versions published in February and April 2019.  Changes to SS18/15:  •   paragraph 4.19 was amended to include an additional footnote to clarify the ‘tran sition  period’ referred to in certain sections of this document is not in respect of EU withdrawal;  •   a typographical error (misplaced words) was corrected in paragraphs 4.20 and 4.21;  •   paragraph 11.5 was updated to reflect the most recently   published waiver by consent  available in respect of the PRA’s Continuity of Access rules; and  •   references to ‘exit’ and ‘exit day’ in the body of the SS were replaced with ‘IP completion  day’ (paragraphs 8.15 and Chapter 13).  2019  April 2019  As a result of   the delay in   exit day   (as it was termed at the time), at the time of making final rules to  account for the possibility of a no - deal withdrawal from the EU some updates were required to this  SS as compared to the near - final version published in February.  Ch anges to SS18/15 as a result of the delay in   exit day   (as it was termed at the time):  •   A footnote defining exit day was removed from paragraph 13.2; and  •   Paragraph 13.19 was amended to reflect the way the FSCS levy rules apply to firms that join  the FSCS par t way through a levy year (specifically, after 31 March 2019, rather than before).  This is not a change in policy, but how the FSCS levy rules in the PRA Rulebook apply in light  of the delay in exit day (as it was termed at the time) past the original 29 M arch 2019 date.  February 2019  An updated version of SS18/15 was published to reflect a no - deal withdrawal from the EU, as part of  a joint Bank of England and PRA Policy Statement 5/ 19 ‘The Bank of England’s amendments to  7   March 2021:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/january/depositor - protection - identity -  verification .

Depositor protection   June 2023   18  financial services legislation unde r the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018’ 8 . In the event there is  no implementation period, the following updates apply to reflect changes to depositor protection in  light of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU .  Changes to SS18/15 consulted upon as part of   CP26/18:  •   Chapter 2   –   paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3 were amended to reflect rule changes;  •   Chapter 3   –   paragraphs 3.1 and 3.27 were updated to direct the reader to Chapter 13 for  expectations regarding the UK’s withdrawal, and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.9 were amended to  reflect rule changes;  •   Chapter 4   –   paragraphs 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 4.19 were updated to remove references to the  recast Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD), 4.12 was updated to reflect rule  changes, and 4.22 was deleted;  •   Chapter 7   –   paragraph 7.4 was a dded;  •   Chapter 8   –   paragraph 8.21 was amended to reflect rule changes;  •   Chapter 13 was added.  Changes made post - consultation:  •   Paragraphs 2.2, 2.3, 3.3, 3.9, 4.12, 8.21, 13.2, 13.10   and   13.13 were amended to reflect the  UK’s post - exit depositor protection pol icy in respect of UK firms’ Gibraltarian branches;  •   Paragraph 13.3 was clarified.  •   Paragraph 13.4A was added to make explicit that the PRA expects firms to comply with  applicable data protection   requirements   when providing SCV and other data to the FSCS or  P RA;  •   Paragraph 13.11 was amended to clarify the meaning of new DGS members relati ng to  Depositor Protection 17.3;  •   Paragraph 13.17 was amended to reflect new numbering in Depositor Protection 20.  2017  19 September 2017  An updated version of SS18/15 was   published. The update was to section 3.16 where the PRA is  providing clarity to firms on the use of the FSCS badge on the Information Sheet contained in Annex  1 of the Depositor Protection Part.  16 January 2017  This SS was updated following publication of   PS1/17 ‘Deposit protection limit’. 9   The following  updates have been mad e to reflect revised guidance and procedures for the changes to the deposit  protection limit from £75,000 to £85,000:  8   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/the - boes - amendments - to - financial - services - legislation - under - the - eu - withdrawal - act -  2018 .

Depositor protection   June 2023   19  •   Chapter 7   –   paragraphs 7.2 and 7.3 have been deleted;  •   Chapters 8   –   paragraph 8.7A has been added;  •   Chapter 11   –   paragrap h 11.5 has been added; and  •   Chapter 12   –   paragraph 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.6, 12.7, 12.8, 12.9, 12.10, 12.11 and 12.12 -  12.27 have been deleted, and paragraphs 12.1A - C, 12.2A, 12.3A, 12.3B,   12.4A 12.6A , 12.8A,  12.9A, 12.11A and 12.11B have been added.  Other changes have been made throughout the SS to improve cross - referencing between chapters  and terminology (eg referring to ‘chapters’ instead of ‘sections’).  2015  31 July 2015  Chapter 2 was updated to i nclude paragraph 2.9 following PS18/15 ’Depositor and dormant account  protection   –   consequential amendments’.  Chapter 3 was updated to reflect changes following CP23/15 and PS18/15 ’Depositor and dormant  account protection   –   consequential amendments’. The   main updates are on application,  amendments to the information sheet and method of communication. Paragraph 3.4 as published in  SS18/15 on 20 July 2015 has been deleted and paragraphs 3.1, 3.3 - 3.7, 3.9, 3.11, 3.12, 3.14, 3.16 -  3.21 and 3.23 are new or have   been amended.  20 July 2015  An updated version of SS18/15 was published. The only updates to the version published on 3 July  2015 are to section 12 regarding the provision of the information sheet before 1 January 2016 and  the requirement to notify deposi tors of the limit change. The PRA has updated this section to advise  that firms discuss options with their supervisor (for example where they face challenges in meeting  the relevant requirements).  3 July 2015  SS18/15 was updated and published alongside PS1 4/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account protection -  the protection limit’ 10   and PS15/15 ‘Depositor and policyholder protection   -   technical  amendments’. 11   The main updates relate to amendments made in PS14/15 concerning the change in  the deposit   protection limit.  20 May 2015  SS18/15 was updated and published alongside PS9/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account protection   –  further amendments’ 12   in response to proposals set out in CP15/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account  protection   –   further amendments’. 13   The main updates relate to Continuity of Access requirements  in relation to overdrafts, dormant account scheme rules, and the treatment of small local  authorities.  9   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/deposit - protection - limit .  10   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection - the -  protection - limit .  11   July 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - policyholder - protection -  tech nical - amendments .  12   May 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/deposi tor - and - dormant - account - protection -  further - amendments .  13   April 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection -  further - amendments .

Depositor protection   June 2023   20


