---
title: "SS18/15 – Ss1815update April 2019"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2020/ss1815update-april-2019.pdf"
---

# SS18/15 – Ss1815update April 2019

Supervisory   Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor and dormant account  protection  April   2019  ( F inalising   February 2019 ) This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Supervisory   Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor and dormant account  protection  April   2019  ( F inalising February 2019 )  ©   Bank of England   2019  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

C ontents  Introduction   1  Eligibility   1  Disclosure   2  Marking eligible deposits and accounts   and transitional issues   6  Temporary high balances   9  Dormant accounts   —   information requirements   9  Calculation of levies   9  Single Customer View   10  In - flight transactions   13  Continuity of Access   16  Scope of depositor protection requirements   18  Changes in the deposit protection limit   19  UK withdrawal from the EU   21  Annex   -   SS18/15   –   updates   23 This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Introduction  This supervisory statement   (SS) sets out the expectations   of the Prudential Regulation  Au thority (PRA) on deposit - takers   with regards to the Depositor Protection rules. 1  This statement is intended to be read together with the   rules contained in the Depositor  Protection Part of the   PRA   Rulebook.  This statement is relevant to deposit - takers (hereafter,‘firms’) to which these rules apply.  By setting out the PRA’s e xpectations with regards to the   Depositor Protection ru les, this  statement may help to   minimise the adverse effect   that the   failure of a PRA firm   could have on  financial   stability and enhance depositor   confidence and therefore contribute towards the  safe ty and   soundness of firms.  Eligibility  The provisions in Dep ositor Protection 2.2 determine   whether a   deposit is an eligible  deposit.  Regarding Depositor Protection   1.3A , a firm   must confirm in SCV field 39   of Depositor  Protection 12.9   that a deposit has been assigned to   a UK   or Gibraltar   establishment.  The definition of deposit in the Depositor Protection   Part includes savings products  evidenced   by   a certificate of   deposit made out to a named person and which exist ed   in   the UK,  Gibraltar or   a   Member State   of the EU   on 2 July 2014. For the avoidance of doubt,   the PRA  expects the certificate itself to have ex isted on   2 July 2014 (not merely the product).  The definition of deposit excludes a credit balance where   the principal is not repayable at  par. The PRA   considers   that,   for a deposit to be ‘repayable at par’, the depositor must be  entitled to repayment in f ull of sums deposited. For the   avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers  that capital at risk   structured deposits are not classed as deposits for the   purposes of deposit  protection.  However, where the depositor accepts investment risk on   the calculation of int erest on a  deposit because it is, for   example, determined by reference to a financial index, but the  principal is repayable at par, the PRA expects that such   product will generally be classed as  deposits for the purposes   of deposit protection.  The PRA expe cts that a deposit may generally be   considered as being ‘repayable at par’ if  repayment of it is   subject to the deduction of fees by the firm.  Further   information   on the scope of depositors eligible for   Deposit Guarantee Scheme  (DGS) protection   from 3 July   2015   is set out in   Table A .  Regarding Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(j), it is acceptable   for firms to rely upon a  reasonable estimate provided by the   local authority of its annual budget, which could for  example   be based on the previous year’s budget. The   PRA expects a   firm to take reasonable  1   On 19 September 2017   and 28 February 2019 , this SS was updated . S ee Annex for full details. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

steps to   ascertain   a local authority’s   budget, but where a firm has been unable to determine if  a   local authority is eligible, it should be treated as a public   authority.  The PRA considers that the fact that a person h as created a charge or equivalent security  interest over his/her   interest   in a deposit does not (in most cases) prevent it being treated as a  deposit for the purposes of the Depositor Protection rules, even where the person who has  taken the security inter est is the DGS member with whom the money has been deposited.   This  is a change to the approach under the previous   Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive ( DGSD ) . 1  Table A   Eligibility for DGS cover of certain classes of depositors   from 3 July 2015  Depositor   El igible or ineligible from 3 July 2015  Natural persons   Eligible  Corporates   Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the   Corporate   falls  under any other exclusion)  Partnerships   Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the partnership falls  under any other   exclusion)  Mutual associations/unincorporated  associations  Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the  association falls under any other exclusion)  Credit institutions (banks, building societies and credit  unions)  Ineligible  Investment firms, insurance undertakings and  reinsurance undertakings  Ineligible  Collective investment schemes   Ineligible  Pension schemes and retirement funds   Ineligible with the exception of deposits by:  •   personal pension schemes;  •   stakeholder pension   schemes; and  •   occupational pension schemes (of micro, small or  medium   enterprises)  Public authorities   Ineligible with the exception of small local authorities  Persons whose claim arises from transactions in  connection with which there has been a criminal  conviction for money laundering  Ineligible  Disclosure  This   chapter   sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms   will disclose information about  the relevant deposit guarantee   scheme and is intended to be read together with the rules  contained in   Chapters 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the   Depositor Protection Part of the  PRA Rulebook.   The PRA’s expectations regarding the disclosure requirements in respect of the  change in the deposit protection limit are set out in Chapter 12.   The PRA’s expe ctations  regarding the disclosure requirements in respect of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU are set  out in Chapter 13.  The   information   sheet  Rules relating to the ‘information sheet’ that must be   provided to depositors are set out in  Depositor Protection   Chapters 16 and 17.  1   Directive 94/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 1994 on deposit - guarantee schemes :   http://eur -  lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?u ri=CELEX:31994L0019:EN:HTML . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Application  The   general principle is that   rules in Chapters 16 and 17 of the Depositor   Protection Part  apply both per depositor and per account. For   example,   under Chapter 16,   in respect of each  account to be opened   and each intending d epositor on that account , firms must   provide an  information sheet to, and obtain acknowledgement   of receipt from,   the   intending depositor  before entering into   each deposit - taking contract   with that intending depositor .   For the  avoidance of doubt, the requ irement to provide the information sheet to, and obtain  acknowledgement from, a particular intending depositor (including for a joint account) is  engaged where that   intending depositor is entering into a deposit - taking contract   and that  deposit will be hel d by   a DGS member   in   an establishment in   the   UK   ( or   a UK firm’s  establishment in   Gibraltar ) .  In the case of joint account holders, provision of the information sheet and other  information under Chapters 16 and 17 can be in line with wider firm practices around dealings  with multiple parties on joint   accounts   (particularly on entering into contract s with, and  providing account statements to, multiple parties), subject to the above principle.  In respect of Depositor Protection 17.2,   where the statement of account covers multiple  accounts it is acceptable for the firm to provide a single information   sheet with that statement.  Whether a firm’s deposit - taking contract is an overall “umbrella” arrangement or  product/account - specific   depends on the firm’s contractual arrangements.  Where the account holder is not the beneficiary of DGS   cover and the firm d oes not have a  direct relationship with the   beneficiary, the PRA expects firms to comply with information  providing   obligations   with respect to the account holder, but   does not consider   information  provision   requirements should apply with respect to   the un derlying beneficiary.  The disclosure requirements referred to in this statement   apply regardless of the  sophistication of the depositor.  Information sheet and the acknowledgement of receipt  Depositor Protection 16.2(3) states that a firm must   obtain an ack nowledgement of  r eceipt of the information   sheet from each   intending   depositor before entering into a   contract  on deposit - taking   where that deposit will be h eld   by a DGS member in an establishment in the  UK (or a UK firm’s establishment in Gibraltar) . In   order to meet this requirement,   prior to the  contract being entered into, firms should obtain   one of the following:  (a)   t he   intending depositor’s   signature on the information sheet. In this   case, the PRA  considers it good   p ractice for firms to   provide the dep ositor with a copy of the information  sheet;  (b)   the   intending depositor ’s signature on an acknowledgement   contained in a separate  document to the information   sheet (which would allow the depositor to retain the  information sheet for their reference);  (c)   the   int ending depositor ’s acknowledgement in a separate ‘tick box’   in the account opening  documentation ;   or  (d)   the   intending depositor’s express   acknowledgement over the telephone.  Regarding options (b) and (c), the PRA considers it   acceptable for the acknowledgemen t  of receipt to be   contained in a separate document from the information sheet.   The PRA does This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

not consider it good practice for the information   sheet to be included within other terms and  conditions (such   as the deposit - taking contract).   Where the   deposit - taking contract is entered  into online,   the depositor should be provided with the information sheet   and exclusions list  and required to confirm receipt of the   information sheet, prior to the contract being entered  into. In   this scenario, an electro nic signature or ‘tick box’ is sufficient   to meet the requirement,  in Depositor Protection 16.2(3), to   obtain acknowledgement of receipt of the information  sheet.  Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into over   the telephone   (i e,   in accordance  with other distance contracting procedures) , the information in the information sheet and   the  exclusions list may be provided, and the express   acknowledgement of the intending depositor  obtained, over   the telephone   (option (d)) . The informat ion provided should include all   the  ‘basic information’ on the information sheet together with   the relevant ‘additional  information’. In such cases, the   information sheet and exclusions list should be provided to,  and acknowledgement requested   (although no t necessarily required)   from, the depositor  alongside other   documentation to be issued after the   telephone call.  Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into in person in a branch, the PRA  considers it good practice for firms to obtain the intending d epositor’s signature on the  information sheet, by way of acknowledgement (option (a)).  For child accounts where the deposit - taking contract is   entered into by a parent or  guardian,   the   PRA expects that the   parent or guardian would be able to acknowledge re ceipt.  Similarly, for accounts where there is power of attorney,   receipt may be acknowledged by the  depositor’s attorney.  The PRA also   does   not expect a new information sheet to be   provided   and acknowledged  where an existing customer   a depositor   is moved   into a new   account (eg at the end of a fixed  rate bond term), unless a new   deposit - taking contract is entered into.  Record - keeping  In retaining records of   intending depositor   acknowledgements, the   PRA expects firms to  follow existing record keeping procedu res   for other account opening documentation.  Trademarks   and FSCS Badge  Where the information sheet states that firms should   ‘insert all trading names which  operate under the same   licence’, the PRA expects firms to include all brands and   trading  names that   fall under the same banking licence. Firms   may include the relevant brand logos  and the FSCS badge, which can be found on the FSCS website . 1  Amendments to the information sheet  Firms may make minor formatting changes to the   information sheet and exclusions   list.  For example,   this   could   mean changing the format for mobile applications where it   may be  difficult to convey the information sheet on a small   screen.   The PRA does not expect firms to  redraft the wording of the information sheet.  For the avoidance of   doubt, all of the   ‘ basic information ’   in Annex 1 of the Depositor  Protection rules needs to be provided in the information sheet along with   the ‘ additional  information ’ . Limited   optionality   is indicated in Annex 1 by sq uare brackets and/or marked as  ‘ only   where applicable ’ .  1   www.fscs.org.uk/industry/fscs - badge - agreement . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Provided that the information sheet and exclusions list are clearly distinguished, the PRA  does not consider   it   necessary for the information sheet and exclusions list to be printed on  separate pages.  Method of communication  For the   pur poses   of Depositor Protection 21.1(3), the   information   should be  communicated   in a way that brings it to the attention of the depositor (rather than deposit ors  generally).   Unless otherwise stated, the PRA expects this to involve proactive communication  to   the specific depositor rather than passive display of information.  Where a firm has reasonable grounds to believe that a   depositor is not resident at the  address   last   known to the firm   as the address of the depositor, the PRA expects the firm to  make reaso nable enquiries to ascertain up - to - date contact   details of the depositor   (in line with  firms’ obligations under the FCA’s Banking: Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS))   in order  to comply with the   information - providing obligations.  Confirmation that depo sits are eligible on account   statements  Under Depositor Protection 17.1, a firm must confirm   that deposits are eligible deposits  on a depositor’s statement   of account. The PRA expects firms to consider both the   eligibility of  the depositor and the eligibil ity of the deposit   when making this assessment (except where  this is not   reasonably   practicable , for example, due to a lack of   information as to whether a  deposit has arisen out of a   transaction in connection with which there has been a criminal  conviction   for money laundering). The PRA does not consider   it acceptable if the confirmation  on the depositor’s statement   of account is conditional (ie ‘your deposits are eligible if you   do  not fall within the exclusions’) as the PRA expects firms to   make this asse ssment.  For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA does not expect the   confirmation on the statement  of account to be changed   where   an   account falls into negative or nil balance , assuming a  deposit on that account would be an eligible deposit .  Compensation   information: branches and websites  If information required to be disclosed under Depositor   Protection 23.7 and 23.8 is  displayed prominently on the front   page of the firm’s website or mobile application or a pop -  up   box upon   logging   on to the website or mob ile application, the   PRA expects that the  requirement to communicate in a way   that best brings the information to depositors’  attention will   have been satisfied.  The PRA considers that a DGS member will comply with   Depositor Protection 23.4, 23.5,  23.6, 23 .7   and   23.8, if it   displays the relevant compensation sticker and/or   compensation  poster produced by the FSCS in accordance   with the requirements of those rules.  References to the DGS in advertising  In Depositor Protection 18.1,   the   PRA considers   ‘advertis ing materials’ to include any  materials containing an   invitation to make a deposit, or information that is intended   or might  reasonably be presumed to be intended to lead   directly or indirectly to the making of a  deposit; and   includes any means of bringing   such an invitation or such   information to the  notice of the person or persons to whom   it is addressed.  Other references to the DGS  The PRA expects firms to update or, where appropriate   pursuant to Depositor Protection  18.1, delete any existing   references   to the DGS in advertising materials, where changes   in PRA  rules mean the information is either no longer accurate   or permitted.   Refer to   Chapter   12 in This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

respect of changes to the deposit protection limit.   Refer to Chapter 13 in respect of the UK’s  withdrawal   from the EU.  Disclosure and other requirements relating to   transfers, mergers or conversions  For the   avoidance   of doubt, the PRA considers Depositor   Protection 19.1 to apply to  transfers of engagement taking   place between credit unions.  Marking eligible   deposits and accounts   and   transitional issues  This   chapter   sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms   will mark eligible deposits and  a ccounts   and is intended to be read together with   Chapters 11 and 13 of the Depositor  Protection Part.  Requirement to ma rk eligible deposits  Depositor Protection 11.1 sets out that a firm must   mark eligible deposits in a way that  allows for immediate   identification of such deposits.   T he PRA considers that firms can meet  this   requirement   in a number of ways, including but no t limited to:  (a)   marking eligible (and/or ineligible) deposits at core systems level (ie flagging at account  level);  (b)   a separate file showing eligible (and/or ineligible) deposits;   or  (c)   using the S ingle   C ustomer   V iew (SCV)   file and exclusions file.  For the purpo ses of meeting Depositor Protection 11.1,   the PRA considers the marking of  eligible deposits may be   achieved by marking accounts of eligible depositors which   contain  eligible   deposits . For the avoidance of doubt, where   such an account balance becomes  n egative, the PRA does not   expect firms to remove the eligible deposit marker.  The PRA’s preferred approach to marking is for firms to   produce a list of eligible accounts  and a list of ineligible   accounts, or clearly be able to separately identify both with in   core  systems. If a firm can only produce/show one of these,   the PRA expects the firm to give  confirmation   that the   remaining accounts not marked are ineligible or eligible   (whichever are  not marked).  In both options 4.2(b) and 4.2(c), the expectation is   for   files to be produced or updated on  a rolling daily basis or   where no rolling daily files are updated or produced, capable   of being  generated immediately following any request from   the PRA or the FSCS. Such an approach to  SCV and exclusion   files under   4.2(c) is not a requirement under the depositor   protection rules,  but is an option for firms to use to meet   Depositor Protection 11.1. The requirements around  the   timing and content of SCV and exclusions file production   remains as specified in the  relevan t rules.  During the transition period 1 , a firm may use a file that is   produced daily but takes 72  hours to be produced as long as   they are able to provide the details of any eligible and/or  ineligible deposits not included in the file the day following   any   request.  1   The ‘transition period’ refers to the time between 3 July 2015 when most depositor protection rules   (with the exception of  rules in Depositor Protection 12 – 15) take effect and 1 December 2016 (when rules in Depositor Protection 49 – 52 cease to  have effect and rules in Depositor Protection 12 – 15 take effect). This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers the   separate file (generated under  whichever option) only need   contain a list of eligible and/or ineligible unique identification  account numbers and does not need to include any customer   or balance i nformation.  If firms wish to use option 4.2(c) to meet the marking   requirement, the PRA expects that  firms, by 3 July 2015,   have updated their SCV files to remove all ineligible deposits   and include  newly eligible deposits (including the eligible deposits   of large corporates and small   local  authorities). Such an approach is not a requirement   under the PRA transitional rules, but is an  option for firms to   use to meet Depositor Protection 11.1. Alternatively, the PRA   considers it  acceptable for firms to use a   combination of   options. For example, options 4.2(a) and 4.2(b)  could be used   for newly eligible deposits such as large corporate deposits   and option 4.2(c) for  all other eligible deposits. The   requirements around the timing and content of SCV and  exclusions file production remains as specified in the   relevant rules.  The options   above   would similarly apply to Depositor   Protection 11.2.  The PRA expects that in compliance with the   requirement in Depositor Protection 11.1 to  11.2 to mark   eligible depos its/accounts ‘in a way that allows for the   immediate identification  of such deposits’, a firm must be able   to make the details of such eligible and/or ineligible  a ccounts   (separately identified) available to the PRA or FSCS in a format   consistent with the  relevant rule and this statement and   within twelve hours from the point of a request from the  PRA   or the   FSCS.  The PRA does not consider that any aggregation of data   on a per depositor/legal entity  basis is necessary to meet the   marking requirements.  Requi rement to mark eligible accounts  Depositor Protection 13.2 sets out that a firm must mark   accounts which hold:  (i)   eligible deposits of natural persons and micro, small and   medium - sized enterprises  (SMEs); and  (ii)   such deposits that would be eligible if they had n ot been   made (ie are held in an account)  at a branch of the firm   located outside of the   UK or Gibraltar .  The PRA considers that firms can meet the Depositor   Protection 13.2 requirements set  out above in a   number   of   ways, including but not limited to:  (a)   marking relevant natural person and SME accounts at   core systems level (ie flagging at  account level);  (b)   a separate fil e showing relevant accounts; or  (c)   using the SCV and exclusions files (to meet   requirement 4.12( i ) only).  The PRA expects that in compliance   with the   requirement in Depositor Protection 13.2 to  mark accounts   ‘in a way that allows for the immediate identification of such   accounts’, a firm  must be able to make the details of such   marked accounts available to the PRA or FSCS in a  format   consistent   with the relevant rule and this statement, and   within 24 hours from the  point of a request from the PRA or   the FSCS.  If firms wish to use options 4.13(a) – 4.13(c) to meet   the marking requirement, the same  considerations as in   paragraphs   4.5 to 4.7 would ap ply. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Requirement 4.12( ii ) cannot be met by 4.13(c) as SCV   files and exclusions files do not  capture non - eligible deposits.  For a firm marking an account under Depositor   Protection 13.2, the PRA considers that  an overall   marker   of   natural person/SME status,   rather than differentiation   between natural  persons, micro, small and medium - sized   enterprises, would be sufficient.  Where   an   account   is subject to marking under more than   one of Depositor Protection  11.1, 11.2 and 13.2, the PRA   expects that a firm would   be able to identify the account for   each  and all of those requirements.  I nformation requirements during   transition period  Depositor Protection 11 sets out a number of information   requirements firms are  expected to meet.   Depositor   Protection 11.3 and 11.4   require that firms upon receipt of a  request must be able to   provide the FSCS with the aggregated amounts of eligible   deposits of  each and every depositor. Depositor Protection   11.5 and 11.6 require that a firm upon receipt  of a request must   be able to pro vide the FSCS with all information necessary to   enable the  FSCS to prepare for the payment of compensation   and that they must provide this information  to the FSCS to   enable the FSCS to pay   compensation within the applicable   time period.  The PRA expects tha t firms would meet the above   requirements through the use of an  SCV file and exclusions file   containing all eligible depositors. During the transition period  when Depositor Protection 11 applies, where firms may not   have yet included the eligible  deposits   of large corporates or   small local authorities in their SCV files or where firms do not  yet have an SCV file, the PRA expects these firms to give   consideration to what information  would be needed by the   FSCS in a failure scenario. Firms should be capable o f   demonstrating  they have a plan in place to obtain the   necessary information to meet the requirements,  should they   receive a request from the FSCS or PRA.  For example, where a firm currently has insufficient   information to report the aggregate  amount for   their large   corporate deposits and small local authority deposits on an   individual  legal entity basis, the PRA   expects   the firm to have a   plan in place for how they would obtain  this information upon   receipt of a request from the FSCS or PRA.  Deleted .  For   the avoidance of doubt, firms are not required to   collect this information to meet the  requirements ahead of   such a request, only to have a credible plan in place to do so in   the  event of a request. The PRA reserves the right to request   firms do implement   the plan where it  is required, for example,   if the PRA is contingency planning for the event of failure of   the firm.  Regarding Depositor Protection 11.5 and 11.6, the PRA   considers that the FSCS may  request this information at   any time, although during the   transition period the PRA   would not  expect such a request to be made as a matter of   course.  Regarding   Depositor   Protection 11.6, the PRA expects   that the timeline for delivery of the  relevant information to   FSCS will be subject to supervisory judgement an d depend on   the  nature and complexity of the firm and the given scenario. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Temporary high balances  For the avoidance of doubt, firms are not required to mark   or verify balances qualifying as  temporary high balances under   PRA rules. This is for the FSCS to   determine, in accordance   with  PRA rules, after default.  Dormant accounts   —   information   requirements  Dormant Account Scheme 27.2 sets out that a firm must,   following a request from the PRA  or FSCS, provide the FSCS   with all information it holds relating to   the dormant accounts   it has  transferred to a dormant account funds operator which   is necessary to enable the FSCS to  prepare for the payment of   compensation.  The information that the PRA expects a firm to provide to   the FSCS following a request  should inc lude, where held, the   following in respect of each eligible claimant:     the claimant’s name;     the claimant’s date of birth;     the claimant’s address;     the details of the account from which the dormant account   balance was transferred  including the account number   and   sort code; and     the eligible dormant account balance.  For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA does not expect firms   to take steps to contact  dormant   account   holders where   information set out above is not held. The PRA does not  expect firms to provide record s in a particular format.  The   PRA   does not expect firms to provide aggregate   protected dormant account balances  per depositor to   the FSCS.  Calculation of levies  Depositor   Protection   43 sets out the PRA’s rule for calculating the FSCS tariff base for  deposit - takers (the Class A tariff base). Depositor Protection 43.2 requires firms to do this  calculation on the basis of covered deposits from the SCV file. Depositor Protection 43.1  req uires firms to include the total balance of deposits in any account which holds funds to  which the account holder is not absolutely entitled. Any funds which the firm has confirmed  are not covered deposits may be excluded.  Deleted.  Deleted.  For deposit - tak ers newly within scope of the FSCS following the UK’s withdrawal from the  EU, refer to Chapter 13. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Single Customer V iew  Submission requirements  Depositor Protection 12.1 and 12.2 set out that a firm   must provide an SCV file and an  exclusions   file   to the   PRA or   the FSCS within 24 hours of a deposit becoming an   unavailable  deposit or request by the PRA or the FSCS. The   PRA considers that the beginning of the 24 -  hour period can be   taken as the end of the business day on which the request was   made. The  PRA or   the FSCS may request the submission of an   SCV file and exclusions file at any time,  including as part of the   business as usual review programme. As such, firms should be   ready  and able to submit SCV and exclusions files to the PRA   and FSCS upon request, a nd within the  time period set out in   the depositor protection rules.  Depositor Protection 50.7 allows a firm with fewer than   5,000 eligible accounts to  c ontinue to opt out of the   electronic elements of SCV requirements during the transition  period. There i s no such opt - out following the transition   period. The PRA considers that firms  may meet Rules   12 .4,   12.7, 50.5 and 50.6 using a range of options based on their size   and  volume of deposits/accounts, including externally   provided SCV systems, internal bespo ke SCV  systems, or   widely available spreadsheet software (eg Excel), as long as in   all cases the rule  requirements are met, including the   automatic identification of covered deposits.  Keys and codes  Depositor Protection 14.5 sets out that firms must   provide information on any keys or  codes used by the firm   internally. These keys and codes can provide useful   information for the  FSCS on how   different   accounts should be   treated, including whether there is any reason why  the   account is not fit for straigh t through payout. For example,   this could be the case if a  depositor needs a letter in a   different format or if post sent to the depositor’s house was  returned because the depositor was no longer at that address.   The PRA expects firms to  consider the purpo se for which the   FSCS will use this information and consider what  i nformation   the FSCS may find useful.  Definition of material change  Depositor Protection 14.3 sets out what a firm must do   after a material change in its SCV  system. The PRA considers   that a   material change would include any change that would   have a  material impact on the firm’s SCV system. For   example, there is likely to be a material change  in a firm’s   SCV system upon a merger or acquisition of a deposit book,   or the introduction of a  new I T system that relates to the   firm’s SCV system.  The PRA considers that minor changes to a firm’s SCV   system (such as to achieve the SCV  changes outlined in   Depositor Protection Chapter 50) would not constitute a   material change  to the SCV system. However,   the full   implementation of the SCV changes required under  Depositor   Protection Chapter 12, or significant steps towards this, would   be considered a  material change. Similarly, the full   implementation of the marking requirements under  D epositor   Protection C hapters 11 and 13 would be considered a material   change to systems to  satisfy marking requirements.  A similar interpretation applies in relation to Depositor   Protection 15.2, where   a material  change in a   firm’s   C ontinuity   of A ccess (CoA) systems includes   any change that would have   a  material impact on the firm’s CoA systems. For example, a   merger or acquisition of a deposit  book and/or an IT upgrade   that impacts the SCV file.  Depositor Protection 14.3, 15.3, 49.4 and 51.4 set out that   a firm must notify th e PRA and  the FSCS within three months   of a material change to its systems to meet marking, SCV, and This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

CoA requirements, including an attestation from the firm’s   governing body that its systems are  compliant with the   relevant PRA requirements. The PRA consid ers that the full   implementation  of marking requirements in Depositor   Protection Chapter 11; the full implementation of the  SCV   requirements in Depositor Protection Chapter 12; and the full   implementation of CoA  requirements in Depositor   Protection Chapter   13 would each constitute a material   change. The  PRA and the FSCS may also request a marking   effectiveness report, SCV effectiveness report,  and CoA report   at any time, and firms should be ready and able to submit such   reports to the  PRA and FSCS promptly   upon request. The PRA   may then consider if further verification of a  firm’s measures   to meet the relevant requirements is appropriate.  8.7A The PRA considers that the implementation of the adjustment to the deposit protection  limit described in   Chapter   12   is not a material change for   the   purposes of Depositor Protection  14.3 and 15.3.  The PRA   expects   that firms will begin to make progress   towards final rules during the  transition period up to   December 2016. In order to ensure firms are able to   implement  De positor Protection Chapters 12 to 15 ahead of   the required implementation date, if so  desired, the PRA   considers that firms may submit SCV files and reports during   the transition  period compliant with Depositor Protection   Chapters 50 and 51, but including   the additional  provisions set   out in Depositor Protection Chapters 12 to 15.  SCV file format  Where firms do not hold the data required to be included   in the SCV or exclusions file or  the data are not applicable,   corresponding fields in the SCV and   exclusion files should   remain  empty. Even if these   fields   are empty, the PRA expects   these fields to remain in the SCV file  and the exclusions file, so   that the files are standard in length. Fields should always   appear in  the same   order   set out in Deposito r Protection 12.9.   Completion of all fields is mandatory  unless otherwise   indicated (ie not applicable or not held by the firm (where   not mandatory)).  Firms must complete all fields where   data are mandatory, or where applicable and held by the  firm.  Any   re levant   additional information concerning data in   the SCV or exclusions file, such as  the unverified nature of any   data, should be included in Field 36 (as set out in Depositor  Protection 12.9).  Depositor Protection 12.4 states that firms must submit   their   information in a format  which is   readily   compatible with   the FSCS’s system. There are three formats that are  considered compatible:     Format   one: a firm should send through the information in   four files. File one should  contain ‘Customer details’, file   two   should contain ‘Contact details’, file three should  contain ‘Details of account(s)’ and file four should contain   ‘Aggregate balance details’.     Format two: a firm should send through the information   in two files. One file should  contain ‘Customer details’,   ‘ Contact details’ and ‘Aggregate balance details’ and one   file  should contain the ‘Details of account(s)’.     Format three: a firm should send through one file which   contains ‘Customer details’,  ‘Contact details’, ‘Aggregate   balance details’ and ‘Details of ac count(s)’.  Firms should use one of these three formats for both the   SCV and exclusions file. They do  not have to use the   same   format for each. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

For all of these formats, a ‘single line format’ should be   used. This means that customer  information should all   be   kept on the same line. Where depositors have more than one  account, this information can be on separate lines.  Where there is more than one file, each depositor should   be linked with their unique  identifier (the single customer view   record number).  For   file types which do not automatically separate fields   a ‘|’ should be used as delimiter.  For example, this would   apply to .txt files.  File names should follow the format   FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSSCVFormatW.xxx for a  SCV file   or   FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSEXCFormatW. xxx for an   exclusions file. Firms should  insert their FRN number and the   date and time that the SCV file was created. ‘FormatW’  should be replaced with information about what is contained   within the file according to the  following:     For format one, this sho uld be four files called   ‘Customerdetails’, ‘Contactdetails’,  ‘Detailsofaccount’ and   ‘Aggregatebalancedetails’.     For format two, this should be called ‘Detailsofaccount’ and  ‘Customerandaccountinformation’.     For format three, this should be called ‘Full’.  Wh ere   Depositor Protection 12.9 does not specify a   numeric form, firms can submit in an  alphanumeric or   numeric form.  Secure electronic submission  Depositor Protection 12.4 specifies that the SCV and   exclusions files should be sent by  secure   electronic   trans mission. This can be via Secure File Transfer Protocol   (SFTP) or via web  portal upload. The details of both methods   are available through the FSCS website.  Name  When completing the SCV or exclusions file, firms should   consider the forename and  surname fiel ds as   mandatory   for   natural persons. For companies, only the surname field is  mandatory.  National identification (ID)  Where firms hold identification numbers for depositors   on file, they should include this in  the SCV or exclusion file   under field 11 in   Depositor Protection 12.9. Where a firm   holds  identification numbers other than the National   Insurance number or passport number of the  depositor, the   firm should explain what type of identification number it   holds and provide the  unique number. Examples o f   national ID include a photocard national identity card   or a driving  licence.  Country where account is domiciled  Field 39 in Depositor Protection 12.9 requires firms to   provide information in the SCV or  exclusions file on the   location of the branch where   the account is held. This may be   different to  the country where the   depositor has their address.   After the UK’s withdrawal from the EU,  deposits are only   eligible   if they are held   by a DGS member in an establishment in the UK (or a  UK firm’s establishment   in Gibraltar) . Firms   with only   UK branches should indicate that the This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

deposits are held in the   United Kingdom   using ISO 3166 - 1 (‘GBR’) . Eligible deposits held in a  Gibraltar branch should be   marked   (‘GIB’) .  Format of exclusions file  For inactive accounts or   beneficiary   accounts, the PRA   expects firms to use the same  format as the SCV file structure   and provide the same information as required for the SCV file.  F or beneficiary accounts, the PRA expects firms to supply   details of the contact for the  client/trus t   account , rather than   the underlying beneficiary.  Dormant accounts  Dormant   accounts that meet the definition in the   Dormant Banks and Building Societies  Accounts Act 2008   should be placed in the exclusions file. The PRA would expect   all such  accounts,   even if not transferred to a dormant account   provider, to be excluded from the SCV  file.  For otherwise - active accounts, it should be recorded in   field 38 of the SCV file, whether  there has been any   transaction relating to the deposit within the 24 months p rior   to  production of the single customer view. The PRA and the   FSCS recognise that for some  accounts such inactivity may not   be indicative of possible dormancy (eg fixed term accounts),  and the FSCS will use judgement in the paying out of such   deposits wi thin applicable  timeframes.  Calculating interest  Depositor Protection 5.9 sets out the requirements for   calculating interest. The PRA  expects firms to apply the   interest accrued to date regardless of the date that it is usually  credited to balances in the   SCV and exclusion file.  Calculating the return on certain structured deposits  In the case of structured deposits firms may not be   able to accurately predict the return  because the   calculation   of the return is based on the growth of an index as at the   matur ity  date of the structured deposit. If that is the case,   firms should flag this type of product in the  SCV file and only   add interest accrued prior to the product start date and any   minimum return  to the account balance in the SCV file.  Balances  Accounts w hich may contain eligible deposits but are in   negative balance should also be  recorded in the SCV file and   exclusions file. Fields 42, 45, and 47 of the file should record a  negative balance with a ‘ – ’ preceding it. Field 42 and 45   should reflect any inter est due to be  paid by the depositor.   Field 48 should list a zero balance for accounts in negative   balance.  Fields 50 and 51 are just in relation to positive   balances, so any accounts with negative  balances should not   be included in calculations related to   these fields.  In - flight transactions  This   chapter   provides more information on the PRA’s   expectations concerning the  treatment of in - flight   transactions covered under Depositor Protection 12.14. The   PRA  understands that each firm’s approach may differ   depending on the timing of end of day  processes, speed to   produce the SCV file and the type of access to each payment   system. The  PRA will allow each firm the freedom to satisfy   Depositor Protection 12.14 within the scope of  their own   processes and externa l relationships. Therefore this SS sets   out the PRA’s  expectations in general terms. It does not   provide detail or prescribe the settlement processes This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

between banks (between settlement banks or between   settlement banks and their  a gency/customer banks).   Sett lement bank and agency/customer bank in this context   can refer  to all deposit - takers, including building societies and   credit unions.  Firms should   consider   the information in this   chapter   alongside their own processes and  relationships with the   financial m arket infrastructures (FMIs) or settlement banks.   They should  apply this guidance to each payment type   accordingly. This will help ensure consistency across  the   industry in a transfer of deposit book or an FSCS payout.  The PRA would expect the same process   to apply for   payments both where the failed firm  is a direct member of a   payment scheme and where it is an indirect member of a   payment  system, where possible.  What are in - flight transactions?  The PRA considers an in - flight transaction to be a   payment whe re not all the underlying  cash movements   comprising   the complete transaction are complete.  In - flight transactions may be incoming payments to   depositors’ accounts for which the  firm has not yet   received   value but which are reflected on the depositor’s bala nce,   and/or  outgoing payments which have been reflected on the   depositor’s account but for which the  firm may not yet have   made a corresponding outgoing payment. There may also be   in - flight  transactions that have neither settled (or, in the case   of an   indirect member, been received by  the depositors’ firm)   nor been reflected on depositors’ accounts.  In - flight transactions may arise where there is deferred   net settlement. There may also be  in - flight transactions   arising where indirect members of payment   schemes do not   have a real -  time flow of settled funds from their settlement   bank.  At the point of resolution or insolvency there is likely to   be a number of payments still  moving through payment   systems that have either not yet settled at bank level or bee n  credited or debited   into   depositors’ accounts. Depositor   Protection 12.14 sets out how these  in - flight payments must   be treated in the SCV file. This rule is intended to ensure, in so   far as  possible, that the balance a depositor can see at the end   of th e business day matches the  balance in the SCV file.   In - flight transactions will be dealt with by the insolvency   practitioner or  administrator after a resolution. However, it is   important that firms understand how to treat  in - flight   transactions in the SCV   file to ensure a consistent approach.   There will need to be a  process of reconciliation between the   insolvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS and  a ny   acquiring firm (as relevant).  How settlement banks should respond  Settlement banks should have pr ocesses in place to   support the transfer (part or whole) of  its customer/agency   bank’s ( indirect   member) deposit book in a resolution, as   appropriate.  This should include the provision of continued   access to their services. Settlement banks will  also be   ex pected to comply with previously published guidance. 1  1   PRA Supervisory Statement LSS12/13, ‘Settl ement bank exposures to customer banks: manag ement of the risks’, April 2013:  https://www.bankofen gland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2013/settlement - bank - exposures - to - customer - banks -  management - of - the - risks - ss . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Principles  All payments for which funds have been received by the   depositor’s firm intraday should  be reflected on the   depositor’s   accounts and therefore in the account balance   field in the SCV  or   exclusions file by close of business.  Some payments may be reflected on depositors’   accounts before they have been settled  between firms due to   timings in payment systems or internal processes. Some   timing  differences will be intraday and some may go acros s   multiple days. Where these payments  have already   been   credited or debited to a depositor’s account, even if interbank   settlement  has not yet completed, the value should be   included as part of a depositor’s compensatable  balance. For   example, if a deposit or has made a debit card payment which   has reduced the  amount of their available balance, this   payment should be excluded from the compensatable  amount   in the SCV file.  For payments that have not been reflected on accounts   and where the depositor does  not   continue to have access to   their account it is possible that these payments will need to  settle and then be returned as unapplied payments. Firms   should consider if this impacts on  their processes.  Depositor Protection 12.14 states that payments debited   fr om a depositor’s account  should be   excluded   from the SCV   and exclusions file regardless of whether the firm has sent  the   value itself. However, where possible, payments debited that   have not yet been entered  into the payment system should be   reapplied to a   depositor’s account. For example, amounts  debited may have been credited to a suspense account. This   will then form part of a  depositor’s compensation balance in   the SCV or exclusions file.  The PRA recognises that there will be a small number of   payments   that are not known  about at the point of resolution   but where the depositor has already committed to making  that payment by taking goods or services in exchange. Any   irrevocable debits (for example,  overseas debit card   transactions) that have not been ref lected on the SCV file may   need to go  through a process of reconciliation with the   insolvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS  and any   acquiring firm (as relevant).  SCV file timing  When creating their SCV systems, firms should work on   the basis that   the point in time  on which they should base   their account snapshot for the purpose of in - flight   transactions will  be close of   business   on the effective date of   the relevant insolvency order issued by the court  or the   relevant transfer instrument issued by   the Bank of England, or   the date on which a  request is made by the FSCS or the PRA.  Relationship with payment schemes  The PRA recognises that both CoA and in - flight   transactions may carry implications for  firms’ relationships   with payment schemes. The   Bank is working closely with UK   payment  systems and   their   members to identify practical   issues that banks’ interaction with payment  systems could   raise when we are seeking to resolve a member bank. Other   than the in - flight  transaction treatment rules, ther e are no   direct requirements on firms to develop additional  measures in   terms of payment systems in relation to the Depositor   Protection requirements  other than a general expectation that   access to accounts being transferred through CoA and  payment instruc tions associated with these accounts should   be maintained so that payments  can continue to be made   during and following resolution. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Continuity of A ccess  This   chapter   sets out additional details on how a deposit   book transfer in resolution  might work to s et   the   PRA’s   expectations in context and provide more information for   firms as  to how systems changes may be used. The PRA would   expect the rules in Depositor Protection  Chapters 11 to 15 to   be read alongside this   chapter .   Refer also to paragraph 11.5.  The   PRA’s rules in Depositor Protection Chapters 12 and   13 set out systems requirements  that will facilitate continued   access to accounts for eligible depositors, including the ability   to  make payments, where accounts are transferred from a   failed firm to   another financial  institution.  It is possible that deposits that are not covered by the   FSCS may not be transferred and  would be dealt with as   claims in the insolvency or administration of the failed firm.   This follows  the same expectation as the bank or b uilding   society insolvency procedure (BIP/BSIP) or  administration   procedure, when only eligible deposits are subject to a   seven - day payout by the  FSCS.  Accounts that are included in the exclusions file and   temporary high balances may not be  transferred and   instead   may be paid out, as relevant, by the FSCS, in line with relevant  timescales.  The PRA determines in Depositor Protection 13. 8   that it   should be operationally feasible  for firms’ systems to freeze   deposit accounts that are not identified under Depos itor  Protection 11.1 within five hours of a resolution and a request   of the PRA. The PRA considers  that the minimum result of   freezing an account should be that a customer is unable to   move  money into or out of the account.  Account separation  Depositor Pro tection 13.4 to 13. 8   require firms to create   and maintain systems that  e nable the firm to separate   uncovered from covered balances and place the uncovered  balances into a separate suspense or shadow account at the   point of resolution and on the  request of   the PRA, within   48 hours. The legal ownership of the covered deposits   remaining in  the account will be transferred to an acquiring   institution, but the deposit account remains  operational on   the failed bank’s systems providing the depositor with   continued   access to their  account. Subsequent to the   resolution weekend, the PRA would expect the acquiring  institution to over time migrate the depositors’ accounts onto   their own systems.  Firms may choose either to set up a single suspense   account or individual shadow  a ccounts for each account from   which uncovered deposits will be transferred. Firms can  choose whether they would want to create the separate   accounts within the core banking  system ahead of resolution   or demonstrate that they   have designed a system with the  capability to create these features at the point of resolution. If   firms decide that they wish to  create shadow accounts ahead   of resolution, the PRA expects firms to demonstrate good  control processes and to provide appropr iate assurance to   manage any risks as part of CoA  reporting under Depositor   Protection 15.7.  The PRA expects that firms should have sufficient record   keeping procedures to enable all  deposit   values   to be   reconciled effectively back to the original account   and   depositor. The PRA  would highlight this is particularly relevant   where single suspense accounts are used. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

The PRA expects firms to use the information in the SCV   file as the means to establish a  depositor’s covered and   uncovered balance.  Overdrafts  Dep ositor Protection 13.6 and 13.7 require a firm to   create and maintain systems that  enable it to move negative   balances in accounts which may contain eligible deposits into   a  separate suspense or shadow account at the point of   resolution and on the request   of the PRA,  within 48 hours.   This would leave the previously overdrawn account with a zero   balance. The  principles in paragraphs 10.6 to 10.9 of SS18/15   apply equally to such systems. SCV and   CoA  requirements in relation to accounts with a negative balance   apply to the same deposit  accounts that would otherwise be   included in the SCV and exclusions files.  Any such movement of negative balances will depend   on the circumstances of  resolution, so a firm must be able to   achieve the movement of deposits not form ing part of the  transferable eligible deposit both in circumstances where a   movement of negative balances is  also required and in   circumstances when not, as instructed by the PRA. This   optionality will  support achieving a CoA transfer including   overdrawn a ccounts to an acquiring firm (either  with a   negative balance or zero balance) depending on the   circumstances in a resolution.  In certain circumstances, a negative balance on an   account may not have previously  been agreed between a   depositor and a firm, for   example due to an unauthorised   overdraft or  a cheque failing to clear. This may be a relevant   factor in considering if   CoA   is appropriate, and  therefore firms should report the maximum authorised   negative balance allowable on an  account in the SCV and   exc lusions file, in the Authorised negative balances   f ield   (field 43).  Account details in transfer  Wherever possible, to support continuity of payments,   the PRA expects account details  (such as the sort - code,   account number and debit card details) to remain u nchanged   at the  point of resolution for an account   that   is transferred.   The PRA would expect that as part of the  migration of the   accounts to the acquiring banks systems, following the   resolution weekend, it  may be necessary for the acquiring bank   to set u p new account details.  Hierarchy of accounts  Depositor Protection 13.5 requires firms to apply a   hierarchy to eligible accounts where  the depositor has   multiple eligible accounts and their aggregate balance is over   the covered  limit. Firms should ensure th at all products are   categorised according to the categories in  Depositor   Protection 13. 5   to ensure the hierarchy is adhered to. Where a   product could fall  into several categories, it should be   recorded as the highest of these categories in the  hierarchy.   W here a product cannot reasonably be placed into one of the   categories, the ‘other’  category should be used.  To meet the objective of enabling CoA to deposits the   hierarchy is designed to ensure  continuity is maintained for   accounts with the most regular tr ansactions. The PRA expects   the  balance in transactional accounts to be the last to be   reduced while the balance in fixed term  deposits with a term   of four years or more should be the first balance to be reduced   (second  only to accounts identified as   ‘other’). When   classifying term products within the hierarchy,  the PRA   expects that firms would do this on the basis of the original   term of the product rather  than the term remaining.  As long as the requirements in the depositor protection   rules are met,   firms are free to  make additional arrangements   as they see fit based on other factors, such as system  functionality or the preferences of depositors in relation to   their accounts. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

If a depositor holds several accounts within a category   in the hierarchy, th e PRA would  expect all accounts within   that category to be reduced pari passu.  Joint accounts  Depositor Protection 5.4 sets out the treatment of joint   accounts generally. In a covered  deposit transfer   using   CoA   systems, the PRA expects the hierarchy set ou t in Depositor  Protection 13.5 to apply in the same way to joint accounts.   For example, if someone had a  joint transactional account,   their share of the eligible balance in the transactional account  would be the last to be reduced.  If a depositor   holds   a j oint account and a single account   within a category in the  hierarchy, the PRA would expect   accounts within that category to be reduced pari passu.  Scope of depositor protection   requirements  The   Depositor   Protection Part applies to all firms, except   CoA   rules which do not apply to  credit unions.  The PRA would consider waivers or modifications to SCV   and CoA rules in accordance  with section 138A of the Financial   Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) if compliance with a  rule would be unduly burdensome or wo uld not meet the   purpose for which the rule was  made, and the direction would   not adversely affect the advancement of any of the PRA  objectives (the statutory tests).  Relevant factors that the PRA would consider in judging   whether the statutory tests had  been met include: the   relevance of the requirements to the wider resolution   approach of the  firm; the proximity to the firm to failure; and   the level of transactional and instant access  accounts held by   the firm. The overall size of the firm, for example,   in terms of   number of  accounts containing eligible deposits and the   amount of covered deposits held by a firm,  would also be a   relevant considerations, including any forward - looking   business plans .  These factors would be assessed in the round so the   PRA’s   decision on any application for  a waiver or   modification   would depend on the individual circumstances of the firm   applying.  The PRA has also made available a waiver by consent 1   which excludes firms from the  scope of CoA rules for a period   of   three years ( from 1 December 2016 to 1 December 2019) .  The conditions for the waiver, as set out in the waiver notice, are that   if the firm meets any of  the following three criteria   a firm can apply for the waiver :  (i)   the firm had more than £15 billion in total assets on   31 March 2016;  (ii)   the firm had both of the following on 31 March 2016:  (a)   less than £2 billion in covered deposits, and  (b)   fewer than 150,000 depositors; or  (iii)   the firm is an overseas firm that is not an incoming firm and has a Part 4A permission that  include s accepting deposits.  1   Full details of the criteria and more information on waivers by   consent are available at  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/Authorisations/waivers - and - modifications - of - rules . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

C hange s   in the deposit protection limit  Deleted.  12.1A This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations around changes to the Depositor Protection  Part arising from the change to the deposit protection limit. The expectations below relate   to  the change in the limit from £75,000 to £85,000 in January 2017. 1   The requirements for a UK  branch of a ‘euro firm’ are not affected. 2  Transitional  12.1B Resetting the deposit protection limit requires consequential changes to firms’  disclosure mate rials, advertising materials and SCV/CoA systems to reflect the new deposit  protection limit. The PRA recognises that it will take time for some firms to amend their  materials and systems ,   so it has provided firms with a   five   month transitional period unti l 30  June 2017 to fully implement the changes.  12.1C The PRA e xpects   f irms   to make these changes as soon as   practicable   after 30 January  2017   (and in any event on or before 30 June 2017) .   Making the changes as soon as possible  will minimise the number of   depositors provided with materials that reference the old £75,000  deposit protection limit and reduce the need for manual intervention   of   a firm’s SCV file by the  FSCS should a firm fail in the transitional period.  Posters and stickers  Deleted.  12.2A   Annex 2 of the Depositor Protection Part   requires amended posters and stickers which  refer to the new £85,000 deposit protection limit to be displayed in branches and on websites  as soon as   practicable   after 30 January 2017 and in any event   on or   before 30   June 2017 . 3   Until  such time, the PRA expects firms to continue to display the existing posters and stickers  (referring to £75,000 in the form set out in Annex 2 of the Depositor Protection Part).  Information sheet   and exclusion list  Deleted.  12.3A   The PR A expects that t he information sheet provided for acknowledgment purposes at  account opening   to   reflect the new deposit protection limit   as soon as practicable after 30  January 2017 and   in any event   on or before   30 June 2017.  12.3B The   e xclusions   l ist in Annex 3 of the Depositor Protection Part requires some   of the   extra  language   supporting the 2015 implementation of the DGSD to   be deleted as of 1 January 2017.  The PRA considers it acceptable for firms to make those changes to the   e xclusions   l ist at   the  same time as it makes the changes to its   i nformation   s heet to reflect the new £85,000 deposit  limit (after 30 January 2017).  Deleted.  12.4A The PRA does not expect firms to change their existing annual information sheet cycles.  1   PRA Policy Statement 1/17 ‘Deposit protection limit’ January 2017:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2016/deposit - protection - limit .  2   A ‘euro firm’ is an incoming firm that is a   credit institution of an EEA State that has adopted the euro or that does not convert  into their national currency the amount referred to in Art 6(1) of the DGSD, pursuant to Article 6(5) of the DGSD.  3   Updated templates for the posters and stickers   are   available on the FSCS’s website:   www.fscs.org.uk . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

The PRA   expects   firm s should ensure that their systems are flexible enough to  accommodate further limit changes should this be required at a future date.  Other references  Deleted .  12.6A For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA expects firms to update all relevant references to  the deposit protection limit (not only where prescribed in PRA rules)   as soon as practicable  after 30 January 2017   and in any event   on or before   30 June 2017. This   includes advertising  materials, product literature, website references, etc.  12.6B The PRA has provided flexibility for firms to update distribution channels, different  materials and individual brands at different times.   The PRA encourages firms to consid er the  possibility that depositors may receive conflicting information and expects firms to   ensure  messaging   is   consistent, as far as practicable.  Informing depositors  Deleted.  Deleted.  12.8A   The   PRA expects firm s   to train customer facing staff to answer   questions from  customers about the change in the deposit protection limit   by 30 January 2017 or as soon as  practicable after 30 January 2017 ,   regardless of when a firm’s   written materials   are   amended .  At a minimum, the PRA considers this training should   include:     what the limit is changing to and when;     who is, and is not, protected; and     what are the implications for depositors with aggregate eligible deposits over the new  deposit protection limit.  Deleted .  12.9A Until such time as staff training is completed, the PRA expects   firms’   staff to direct  customers to the FSCS website in the first instance.  Identifying small corporate depositors  Deleted.  Single Customer View   (SCV)   and Continuity of Access   (CoA)   sy stems  Deleted.  12.11A   The PRA expects f irms   to   make changes to their SCV and CoA systems to ensure the  compensatable amount (and transferable eligible deposit, if the CoA rules are applicable to the  firm) as soon as   practicable after 30 January 2017 and   in any event   on or before   30 June 2017 .  12.11B If a firm were to fail after 30 January 2017 but had made use of the transitional period  and not yet updated its systems to reflect   the deposit protection limit change , depositors are  still protected to the   £85,000 limit. The FSCS’s processes will be amended to ensure this  protection during the transitional period.  Depositors with aggregate   eligible deposits   above   £75 ,000  12.12 to 12.27   Deleted. This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

UK withdrawal from the EU  This chapter sets out the PRA’s   expectations around changes to the Depositor Protection  Part as a result of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  From exit day, the scope of FSCS protection has been amended to protect eligible  deposits held by deposit - takers with FSMA Part 4A permission to ac cept deposits, only where  those deposits are held by UK establishments of   such firms   (or by UK firms’ establishments in  Gibraltar) .  Due to the importance of depositor protection, the PRA is requiring new DGS members  (firms that   from   exit day are granted, o r deemed to have, Part 4A permission to accept  deposits   at an establishment in the UK ) to comply with the Depositor Protection Part  immediately upon exit day.  Single Customer View  Depositor Protection Chapter 12 requires DGS members (including new DGS memb ers) to  be able to provide SCV and exclusions view files within 24 hours of a request by the PRA or  FSCS, or within 24 hours of deposits becoming unavailable. It also requires firms to provide the  FSCS with SCV and exclusions view files within three months   of being granted or deemed a Part  4A permission to accept deposits.  13.4A   The PRA expects firms to comply with applicable data protection   requirements   when  providing SCV and other data to the FSCS or PRA. Firms are expected to factor   such  requirements   int o their plans and systems to deliver information under the Depositor  Protection Part.  Firms with existing Part 4A permissions prior to exit will need to revise their SCV systems  to   remove   deposits that are no longer eligible, namely deposits held by UK firms’ branches  located in the EEA.  Chapter 8 of this SS provides further expectations regarding   the   SCV.  Informing depositors  Chapter 3 of this SS provides expectations regarding customer d isclosure. The following  expectations are specific to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  Deposits held by UK establishments  New customer disclosure and acknowledgements  Depositor Protection 16 requires all DGS members (including new DGS members as of  exit da y) to provide up - to - date information sheets and exclusions lists in prescribed form to  intending depositors and to obtain an acknowledgment of receipt from the intending  depositor, before entering into a contract on deposit - taking.  A new exclusions list ha s been   included in Annex 3 of the Depositor Protection Part.  As noted in paragraphs 3.3 and 3.9, Depositor Protection 16 applies when the deposit is  held by the firm in   a   UK   establishment   or by a UK firm’s Gibraltar establishment . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

Disclosure to existing   depositors  Depositor Protection 17.3 requires new DGS members   (firms that are becoming new  DGS members immediately after exit day under the Temporary Permission Regime or  Supervised Run - off Regime)   to provide a revised information sheet and exclusions list   to  existing depositors with deposits held in   a   UK establishment within two months after exit day.  The provision of the information sheet and exclusion list required by Depositor  Protection 17.3 will also count for the purposes of the obligation under Depo sitor Protection  17.1 to provide that information annually, and accordingly will ‘reset’ the annual obligation.  Depositor Protection 17.1(3) applies when the deposit is held by the firm in   a UK  establishment   (or by a UK firm’s Gibraltar establishment) .  Po sters and stickers  The Depositor Protection Part requires firms to display posters and stickers which refer  to FSCS protection to be displayed in branches and on websites. The PRA expects new DGS  members to remove previous posters and stickers (that referr ed to coverage by home DGSs)  and meet the requirements in respect of the updated materials reflecting FSCS coverage on  the day following exit day. 1  Staff Training  The PRA expects new DGS members to train customer facing staff to answer questions  from custo mers about the fact that the FSCS is now providing depositor protection for dep osits  held by the DGS member at   a   UK   establishment .  Deposits held by UK firms’ EEA branches  From exit day, deposits held by UK firms’ establishments outside the UK will not be  p rotected by the FSCS.  Information about removal of FSCS protection  Depositor Protection 20. 3   requires UK firms with establishments in the EEA, whose  deposits will no longer be protected by the FSCS following exit day to notify affected  depositors within on e month beginning on the day following exit day. Firms should not send  these notifications before exit day.  Other references  The PRA expects both UK firms with establishments in the EEA and new DGS members  to update all relevant references to depositor pro tection to reflect the new scope of  protection.  Levies  As a result of falling within the scope of the FSCS, EEA firms that have Part 4A  permission   (or deemed Part 4A permission)   with effect from exit day   will have joined the FSCS  part way through a levy ye ar .   These firms   will be required to pay levies   in respect of FSCS base  costs for the current   year, and other FSCS levies (e g, compensation cost levies)   starting with  the FSCS’s next   levy   year .   This is not a change   in policy,   but   how the FSCS levy rules in   t he PRA  Rulebook apply in light of the   delay in exit day past the original 29 March 2019 date.  1   Updated templates for the posters and stickers   will be   available on the FSCS’s website:   www.fscs.org.uk . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

A nnex   -   SS18/15   –   updates  This   a nnex   details changes made to SS18 /15 following its initial publication in   April   2015  following   PS6 /15 ‘ Depositor and dormant   account protection ’ . 1  2019  April 2019  As a result of the   delay   in exit day, at the time of making final rules   to account for the  possibility of   a no - deal withdrawal from the EU some updates were required to this SS   as  compared to the near - final version pub lished in February .  Changes to SS18/15 as a result of the   delay   in exit day:     A footnote defining exit day was removed from paragraph 13.2;   and     Paragraph 13.19 was amended to reflect the way the   FSCS levy rules   apply to firms  that join the   FSCS part way thr ough a   levy   year ( specifically,   after 31 March   2019 ,  rather than before ) .   This is not a change in policy, but how the FSCS levy rules in the  PRA Rulebook apply in light of the delay in exit day past the original 29 March 2019  date.  February   2019  An updated   version of SS18/15 was published   to reflect a no - deal withdrawal   from the EU , as  part of a joint Bank of England and PRA Policy Statement   5 / 19 ‘The Bank of England’s  amendments to financial services legislation under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act  20 18’ 2 .   In the event there is   no implementation period, t he following updates   apply   to reflect  changes to depositor protection in light of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU .  Changes to SS18/15 consulted upon as part of CP26/18:     Chapter 2   –   paragraphs 2.2 and 2 .3 were amended to reflect rule changes;     Chapter 3   –   paragraphs 3.1 and 3.27 were updated to direct the reader to Chapter 13  for expectations regarding the UK’s withdrawal, and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.9 were  amended to reflect rule changes;     Chapter 4   –   paragr aphs 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 4.19 were updated to remove references to  the recast Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD), 4.12 was updated to reflect  rule changes, and 4.22 was deleted;     Chapter 7   –   paragraph 7.4 was added;     Chapter 8   –   paragraph   8 .21 was amen ded to reflect rule changes;     Chapter 13 was added.  Changes made post - consultation:  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ps/2015/ps615.aspx .  2   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/the - boes - amendments - to - financial - services - legislation - under - the - eu -  withdrawal - act - 2018 . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

   Paragraphs 2.2, 2.3, 3.3, 3.9, 4.12, 8.21, 13.2, 13.10   and   13.13 were amended to reflect  the UK’s post - exit depositor protecti on policy in respect of UK firm s ’   Gibraltarian  branches;     Paragraph 13.3 was clarified.     Paragraph 13.4A was added to make explicit that the PRA expects firms to comply with  applicable data protection   requirements   when providing SCV and other data to the  FSCS or PRA;     Paragraph 13.11 was amended to   clarify the meaning of new DGS members relati ng to  Depositor Protection 17.3;     Paragraph 13.17 was amended to reflect new numbering in Depositor Protection 20.  2017  19   September 2017  An updated version of   SS18/15 was published. The   update   was   to section 3.16   where the PRA  is providing clarity   to firms   on the use of the   FSCS badge on   the   Information S heet   contained in  Annex 1 of the Depositor Protection Part .  16 January 2017  This SS was updated following publication of PS1/17 ‘Deposit protectio n limit’. 1   T he following  updates have been mad e to reflect revised guidance and procedures for the changes to the  deposit protection limit from £75,000 to £85,000:     Chapter 7   –   paragraphs 7.2 and   7.3 have been deleted;     Chapters 8   –   paragraph 8.7A has been a dded ;     Chapter   11   –   paragrap h 11.5 has been added ; and     Chapter   12   –   paragraph 12.1 , 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.6, 12.7, 12.8, 12.9, 12.10, 12.11   and  12.12 - 12.27 have   been deleted, and paragraphs 12.1A - C , 12.2A, 12.3A, 12.3B,   12.4A  12.6A , 12.8A, 12.9A, 12.11A   and   12.11B   have been added.  Other changes have been made throughout the SS to improve cross - referencing between  chapters and terminology (eg referring to ‘chapters’ instead of ‘sections’).  2015  31 July 2015  Chapter 2 was updated to include paragraph 2.9 fo llowing PS18/15 ’Depositor and dormant  account protection   –   consequential amendments’.  Chapter 3 was updated to reflect changes following CP23/15 and PS18/15 ’Depositor and  dormant account protection   –   consequential amendments’. The main updates are on  ap plication, amendments to the information sheet and method of communication. Paragraph  3.4 as published in SS18/15 on 20 July 2015 has been deleted and paragraphs 3.1, 3.3 - 3.7, 3.9,  3.11, 3.12, 3.14, 3.16 - 3.21 and 3.23 are new or have been amended.  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/deposit - protection - limit . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED

20 July   2015  An updated version of SS18/15 was published. The only updates to the version published on 3  July 2015 are to section 12 regarding the provision of the information sheet before 1 January  2016 and the requirement to notify depositors of the limit chang e. The PRA has updated this  section to advise that firms discuss options with their supervisor (for example where they face  challenges in meeting the relevant requirements).  3 July 2015  SS18/15 was updated and published alongside PS14/15 ‘Depositor and   dormant account  protection -   the protection limit’ 1   and PS15/15 ‘Depositor and policyholder protection   -  technical amendments’. 2   The main updates relate to amendments made in PS14/15  concerning the change in the deposit protection limit.  20 May 2015  SS18/15   was updated and published alongside PS9/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account  protection   –   further amendments’ 3   in response to proposals set out in CP15/15 ‘Depositor and  dormant account protection   –   further amendments’. 4   The main updates relate to Continuity   of  A ccess requirements in relation to overdrafts, dormant account scheme rules, and the  treatment of small local authorities.  1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection - the -  protection - limit .  2   July 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - policyholder -  protection - technical - amendments .  3   May 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account -  protection - further - amendments .  4   April 2015:   w   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publica tion/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account -  protection - further - amendments . This document was superseded on 18 December 2020 by the December 2020 version. For the current version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss SUPERSEDED


