---
title: "SS1815/ – Ss1815 March 2021"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2021/ss1815-march-2021.pdf"
---

# SS1815/ – Ss1815 March 2021

Supervisory Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor and dormant account  protection  March 2021  (Updating December 2020) This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Supervisory Statement   |   SS18/15  Depositor and dormant   account  protection  March 2021  (Updating December 2020)  ©   Bank of England   2021  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Contents  Introduction   1  Eligibility   1  Disclosure   2  Marking eligible deposits and accounts   and transitional issues   6  Temporary high balances   9  Dormant accounts   —   information requirements   9  Calculation of levies   9  Single Customer View   11  In - flight transactions   14  Continuity of Access   16  Scope of depositor protection requirements   19  Changes in the deposit protection limit   19  UK withdrawal from the EU   22  Annex   -   SS18/15   –   updates   24 This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Introduction  1.1   This supervisory   statement (SS) sets out the expectations of the Prudential Regulation Authority  (PRA) on deposit - takers with regards to the Depositor Protection rules. 1  1.2   This statement is intended to be read together with the rules contained in the Depositor  Protection Par t of the PRA Rulebook.  1.3   This statement is relevant to deposit - takers (hereafter,‘firms’) to which these rules apply.  1.4   By setting out the PRA’s expectations with regards to the Depositor Protection rules, this  statement may help to minimise the adverse effect   that the failure of a PRA firm could have on  financial stability and enhance depositor confidence and therefore contribute towards the safety  and soundness of firms.  Eligibility  2.1   The provisions in Depositor Protection 2.2 determine whether a deposit is an   eligible deposit.  2.2   Regarding Depositor Protection   1.3A , a firm   must confirm in SCV field 39   of Depositor Protection  12.9   that a deposit has been assigned to   a UK or Gibraltar establishment.  2.3   The definition of deposit in the Depositor Protection Part includes savings products evidenced  by   a certificate of deposit made out to a named person and which existed in the UK, Gibraltar or a  Member State of the EU on 2 July 2014. For the avoidance of do ubt, the PRA expects the certificate  itself to have existed on 2 July 2014 (not merely the product).  2.4   The definition of deposit excludes a credit balance where the principal is not repayable at par.  The PRA   considers   that, for a deposit to be ‘repayable at   par’, the depositor must be entitled to  repayment in full of sums deposited. For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers that capital at  risk structured deposits are not classed as deposits for the purposes of deposit protection.  2.5   However, where the depos itor accepts investment risk on the calculation of interest on a  deposit because it is, for example, determined by reference to a financial index, but the principal is  repayable at par, the PRA expects that such product will generally be classed as deposit s for the  purposes of deposit protection.  2.6   The PRA expects that a deposit may generally be considered as being ‘repayable at par’ if  repayment of it is subject to the deduction of fees by the firm.  2.7   Further   information   on the scope of depositors eligible for   Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS)  protection   from 3 July 2015 is set out in   Table A .  2.8   Regarding Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(j), it is acceptable for firms to rely upon a reasonable  estimate provided by the local authority of its annual budget, which could for   example be based on  the previous year’s budget. The PRA expects a firm to take reasonable steps to   ascertain   a local  authority’s budget, but where a firm has been unable to determine if a local authority is eligible, it  should be treated as a public autho rity.  1   This   SS   has been   updated   a number of times. S ee Annex for full details. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

2.9   The PRA considers that the fact that a person has created a charge or equivalent security  interest over his/her   interest   in a deposit does not (in most cases) prevent it being treated as a  deposit for the purposes of the Depositor Protection rules, e ven where the person who has taken  the security interest is the DGS member with whom the money has been deposited. This is a change  to the approach under the previous Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD). 2  Table A   Eligibility for DGS cover of certai n classes of depositors   from 3 July 2015  Depositor   Eligible or ineligible from 3 July 2015  Natural persons   Eligible  Corporates   Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the   Corporate   falls  under any other exclusion)  Partnerships   Eligible (regardless of   size) (unless the partnership falls  under any other exclusion)  Mutual associations/unincorporated  associations  Eligible (regardless of size) (unless the  association falls under any other exclusion)  Credit institutions (banks, building societies and   credit  unions)  Ineligible  Investment firms, insurance undertakings and  reinsurance undertakings  Ineligible  Collective investment schemes   Ineligible  Pension schemes and retirement funds   Ineligible with the exception of deposits by:  •   personal pension sche mes;  •   stakeholder pension schemes; and  •   occupational pension schemes (of micro, small or  medium   enterprises)  Public authorities   Ineligible with the exception of small local authorities  Persons whose claim arises from transactions in  connection with which there has been a criminal  conviction for money laundering  Ineligible  2.10   In the event that identity verification has not been carried out in accordance with the relevant  anti - money launde ring requirements referred to in Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(f) ahead of   the firm’s  compensation date,   the PRA considers that   Depositor Protection 2.2(4)(f)   would allow   the relevant  i nsolvency   p ractitioner appointed by the court   to   facilitate the   identity verification for the purposes  of determining eligibility for FSCS   (Financial Services Compensation Scheme)   protection . 3  Disclosure  3.1   This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms will disclose information about the  relevant deposit guarantee scheme and is intended to be read together with the rules contained in  Chapters 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the Depositor Prot ection Part of the PRA Rulebook. The  PRA’s expectations regarding the disclosure requirements in respect of the change in the deposit  2   Directive 94/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 1994 on deposit - guarantee schemes :   http://eur -  lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31994L0019:EN:HTML .  3   Insolvency practitioners should consider   in line with the   i nsolvency   p ractitioner’s objectives and responsibilities under Section 99 of  the Banking Act 2009. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

protection limit are set out in Chapter 12.   The PRA’s expectations regarding the disclosure  requirements in respect of the   UK’s withdrawal from the EU are set out in Chapter 13.  The   information   sheet  3.2   Rules relating to the ‘information sheet’ that must be provided to depositors are set out in  Depositor Protection Chapters 16 and 17.  Application  3.3   The general principle is that r ules in Chapters 16 and 17 of the Depositor Protection Part apply  both per depositor and per account. For example, under Chapter 16, in respect of each account to  be opened and each intending depositor on that account, firms must provide an information she et  to, and obtain acknowledgement of receipt from, the intending depositor before entering into each  deposit - taking contract with that intending depositor. For the avoidance of doubt, the requirement  to provide the information sheet to, and obtain acknowl edgement from, a particular intending  depositor (including for a joint account) is engaged where that   intending depositor is entering into a  deposit - taking contract and that deposit will be held by a DGS member in an establishment in the UK  (or a UK firm’s   establishment in Gibraltar).  3.4   In the case of joint account holders, provision of the information sheet and other information  under Chapters 16 and 17 can be in line with wider firm practices around dealings with multiple  parties on joint   accounts   (particul arly on entering into contracts with, and providing account  statements to, multiple parties), subject to the above principle.  3.5   In respect of Depositor Protection 17.2,   where the statement of account covers multiple  accounts it is acceptable for the firm to   provide a single information sheet with that statement.  3.6   Whether a firm’s deposit - taking contract is an overall “umbrella” arrangement or  product/account - specific   depends on the firm’s contractual arrangements.  3.7   Where the account holder is not the beneficia ry of DGS cover and the firm does not have a  direct relationship with the beneficiary, the PRA expects firms to comply with information providing  obligations   with respect to the account holder, but does not consider information provision  requirements shoul d apply with respect to the underlying beneficiary.  3.8   The disclosure requirements referred to in this statement apply regardless of the sophistication  of the depositor.  Information sheet and the acknowledgement of receipt  3.9   Depositor Protection 16.2(3) states   that a firm must obtain an acknowledgement of receipt of  the information sheet from each intending depositor before entering into a contract on deposit -  taking   where that deposit will be h eld by a DGS member in an establishment in the UK (or a UK  firm’s e stablishment in Gibraltar). In   order to meet this requirement, prior to the contract being  entered into, firms should obtain one of the following:  (a)   the intending depositor’s signature on the information sheet. In this case, the PRA considers it  good practic e for firms to provide the depositor with a copy of the information sheet;  (b)   the intending depositor’s signature on an acknowledgement contained in a separate document  to the information sheet (which would allow the depositor to retain the information sheet   for  their reference); This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

(c)   the intending depositor’s acknowledgement in a separate ‘tick box’ in the account opening  documentation;   or  (d)   the intending depositor’s express acknowledgement over the telephone.  3.10   Regarding options (b) and (c), the PRA considers it acc eptable for the acknowledgement of  receipt to be contained in a separate document from the information sheet. The PRA does not  consider it good practice for the information sheet to be included within other terms and conditions  (such as the deposit - taking   contract). Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into online, the  depositor should be provided with the information sheet and exclusions list and required to confirm  receipt of the information sheet, prior to the contract being entered into. In this   scenario, an  electronic signature or ‘tick box’ is sufficient to meet the requirement, in Depositor Protection  16.2(3), to obtain acknowledgement of receipt of the information sheet.  3.11   Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into over the telephone (ie , in accordance with  other distance contracting procedures), the information in the information sheet and the exclusions  list may be provided, and the express acknowledgement of the intending depositor obtained, over  the telephone (option (d)). The informa tion provided should include all the ‘basic information’ on  the information sheet together with the relevant ‘additional information’. In such cases, the  information sheet and exclusions list should be provided to, and acknowledgement requested  (although n ot necessarily required) from, the depositor alongside other documentation to be issued  after the telephone call.  3.12   Where the deposit - taking contract is entered into in person in a branch, the PRA considers it  good practice for firms to obtain the intending   depositor’s signature on the information sheet, by  way of acknowledgement (option (a)).  3.13   For child accounts where the deposit - taking contract is entered into by a parent or guardian,  the   PRA expects that the parent or guardian would be able to acknowledge r eceipt. Similarly, for  accounts where there is power of attorney, receipt may be acknowledged by the depositor’s  attorney.  3.14   The PRA also   does   not expect a new information sheet to be provided and acknowledged  where an existing customer a depositor is moved   into a new account (eg at the end of a fixed rate  bond term), unless a new deposit - taking contract is entered into.  Record - keeping  3.15   In retaining records of intending depositor acknowledgements, the PRA expects firms to follow  existing record keeping   procedures for other account opening documentation.  Trademarks   and FSCS Badge  3.16   Where the information sheet states that firms should ‘insert all trading names which operate  under the same licence’, the PRA expects firms to include all brands and trading name s that fall  under the same banking licence. Firms may include the relevant brand logos and the FSCS badge,  which can be found on the FSCS website. 4  Amendments to the information sheet  3.17   Firms may make minor formatting changes to the information sheet and exc lusions list. For  example,   this   could mean changing the format for mobile applications where it may be difficult to  4   www.fscs.org.uk/industry/fscs - badge - agreement . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

convey the information sheet on a small screen.   The PRA does not expect firms to redraft the  wording of the information sheet.  3.18   For the avoid ance of doubt, all of the ‘basic information’ in Annex 1 of the Depositor Protection  rules needs to be provided in the information sheet along with the ‘additional information’. Limited  optionality   is indicated in Annex 1 by square brackets and/or marked a s ‘only where applicable’.  3.19   Provided that the information sheet and exclusions list are clearly distinguished, the PRA does  not consider   it   necessary for the information sheet and exclusions list to be printed on separate  pages.  Method of communication  3.20   For   the   purposes   of Depositor Protection 21.1(3), the information should be communicated in  a way that brings it to the attention of the depositor (rather than depositors generally). Unless  otherwise stated, the PRA expects this to involve proactive communicat ion to the specific depositor  rather than passive display of information.  3.21   Where a firm has reasonable grounds to believe that a depositor is not resident at the address  last   known to the firm as the address of the depositor, the PRA expects the firm to mak e reasonable  enquiries to ascertain up - to - date contact details of the depositor (in line with firms’ obligations  under the FCA’s Banking: Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS)) in order to comply with the  information - providing obligations.  Confirmation th at deposits are eligible on account   statements  3.22   Under Depositor Protection 17.1, a firm must confirm that deposits are eligible deposits on a  depositor’s statement of account. The PRA expects firms to consider both the eligibility of the  depositor and the e ligibility of the deposit when making this assessment (except where this is not  reasonably   practicable , for example, due to a lack of information as to whether a deposit has arisen  out of a transaction in connection with which there has been a criminal con viction for money  laundering). The PRA does not consider it acceptable if the confirmation on the depositor’s  statement of account is conditional (ie ‘your deposits are eligible if you do not fall within the  exclusions’) as the PRA expects firms to make th is assessment.  3.23   For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA does not expect the confirmation on the statement of  account to be changed where an   account falls into negative or nil balance, assuming a deposit on  that account would be an eligible deposit.  Compensation   information: branches and websites  3.24   If information required to be disclosed under Depositor Protection 23.7 and 23.8 is displayed  prominently on the front page of the firm’s website or mobile application or a pop - up box upon  logging   on to the website or mo bile application, the PRA expects that the requirement to  communicate in a way that best brings the information to depositors’ attention will have been  satisfied.  3.25   The PRA considers that a DGS member will comply with Depositor Protection 23.4, 23.5, 23.6,  2 3.7   and   23.8, if it displays the relevant compensation sticker and/or compensation poster produced  by the FSCS in accordance with the requirements of those rules.  References to the DGS in advertising  3.26   In Depositor Protection 18.1,   the   PRA considers ‘advertising materials’ to include any materials  containing an invitation to make a deposit, or information that is intended or might reasonably be This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

presumed to be intended to lead directly or indirectly to the making of a deposit; and includ es any  means of bringing such an invitation or such information to the notice of the person or persons to  whom it is addressed.  Other references to the DGS  3.27   The PRA expects firms to update or, where appropriate pursuant to Depositor Protection 18.1,  delete   any existing references to the DGS in advertising materials, where changes in PRA rules mean  the information is either no longer accurate or permitted. Refer to Chapter 12 in respect of changes  to the deposit protection limit.   Refer to Chapter 13 in respec t of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  Disclosure and other requirements relating to   transfers, mergers or conversions  3.28   For the   avoidance   of doubt, the PRA considers Depositor Protection 19.1 to apply to transfers  of engagement taking place between credit un ions.  Marking eligible deposits and accounts   and   transitional issues  4.1   This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms will mark eligible deposits and  accounts   and is intended to be read together with Chapters 11 and 13 of the Depositor Protection  Part.  Requirement to mark eligible deposits  4.2   Depositor Protection 11.1 sets out that a firm must mark eligible deposits in a way that allows  for immediate identification of such deposits. The PRA considers that firms can meet this  requirement   in a number of   ways, including but not limited to:  (a)   marking eligible (and/or ineligible) deposits at core systems level (ie flagging at account level);  (b)   a separate file showing eligible (and/or ineligible) deposits; or  (c)   using the Single Customer View (SCV) file and   exclusions file.  4.3   For the purposes of meeting Depositor Protection 11.1, the PRA considers the marking of  eligible deposits may be achieved by marking accounts of eligible depositors which contain eligible  deposits . For the avoidance of doubt, where such an   account balance becomes negative, the PRA  does not expect firms to remove the eligible deposit marker.  4.4   The PRA’s preferred approach to marking is for firms to produce a list of eligible accounts and a  list of ineligible accounts, or clearly be able to sep arately identify both within core systems. If a firm  can only produce/show one of these, the PRA expects the firm to give   confirmation   that the  remaining accounts not marked are ineligible or eligible (whichever are not marked).  4.5   In both options 4.2(b) and   4.2(c), the expectation is for files to be produced or updated on a  rolling daily basis or where no rolling daily files are updated or produced, capable of being generated  immediately following any request from the PRA or the FSCS. Such an approach to SCV   and exclusion  files under 4.2(c) is not a requirement under the depositor protection rules, but is an option for firms  to use to meet Depositor Protection 11.1. The requirements around the timing and content of SCV  and exclusions file production remains as   specified in the relevant rules. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

4.6   During the transition period 5 , a firm may use a file that is produced daily but takes 72 hours to  be produced as long as they are able to provide the details of any eligible and/or ineligible deposits  not included in the   file the day following any request.  4.7   For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA considers the separate file (generated under whichever  option) only need contain a list of eligible and/or ineligible unique identification account numbers  and does not need to include   any customer or balance information.  4.8   If firms wish to use option 4.2(c) to meet the marking requirement, the PRA expects that firms,  by 3 July 2015, have updated their SCV files to remove all ineligible deposits and include newly  eligible deposits (includ ing the eligible deposits of large corporates and small local authorities). Such  an approach is not a requirement under the PRA transitional rules, but is an option for firms to use  to meet Depositor Protection 11.1. Alternatively, the PRA considers it acc eptable for firms to use a  combination of options. For example, options 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) could be used for newly eligible  deposits such as large corporate deposits and option 4.2(c) for all other eligible deposits. The  requirements around the timing and c ontent of SCV and exclusions file production remains as  specified in the relevant rules.  4.9   The options   above   would similarly apply to Depositor Protection 11.2.  4.10   The PRA expects that in compliance with the requirement in Depositor Protection 11.1 to 11.2  to m ark eligible deposits/accounts ‘in a way that allows for the immediate identification of such  deposits’, a firm must be able to make the details of such eligible and/or ineligible accounts  (separately identified) available to the PRA or FSCS in a format co nsistent with the relevant rule and  this statement and within twelve hours from the point of a request from the PRA or the FSCS.  4.11   The PRA does not consider that any aggregation of data on a per depositor/legal entity basis is  necessary to meet the marking r equirements.  Requirement to mark eligible accounts  4.12   Depositor Protection 13.2 sets out that a firm must mark accounts which hold:  (i)   eligible deposits of natural persons and micro, small and medium - sized enterprises (SMEs); and  (ii)   such deposits that would be elig ible if they had not been made (ie are held in an account) at a  branch of the firm located outside of the   UK or Gibraltar.  4.13   The PRA considers that firms can meet the Depositor Protection 13.2 requirements set out  above in a   number   of ways, including but not   limited to:  (d)   marking relevant natural person and SME accounts at core systems level (ie flagging at account  level);  (e)   a separate file showing relevant accounts; or  (f)   using the SCV and exclusions files (to meet requirement 4.12(i) only).  5   The ‘transition period’   in Chapter 4 and paragraphs 8.2 and 8.8   refers to the time between 3 July 2015 when most depositor  protection rules (wit h the exception of rules in Depositor Protection 12 – 15)   t ook   effect and 1 December 2016 (when rules in  Depositor Protection 49 – 52 cease d   to have effect and rules in Depositor Protection 12 – 15   t ook   effect). This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

4.14   The PRA expects that in   compliance with the requirement in Depositor Protection 13.2 to mark  accounts ‘in a way that allows for the immediate identification of such accounts’, a firm must be able  to make the details of such marked accounts available to the PRA or FSCS in a forma t consistent with  the relevant rule and this statement, and within 24 hours from the point of a request from the PRA  or the FSCS.  4.15   If firms wish to use options 4.13(a) – 4.13(c) to meet the marking requirement, the same  considerations as in   paragraphs   4.5 to   4.7 would apply.  4.16   Requirement 4.12(ii) cannot be met by 4.13(c) as SCV files and exclusions files do not capture  non - eligible deposits.  4.17   For a firm marking an account under Depositor Protection 13.2, the PRA considers that an  overall   marker   of natural person /SME status, rather than differentiation between natural persons,  micro, small and medium - sized enterprises, would be sufficient.  4.18   Where   an   account   is subject to marking under more than one of Depositor Protection 11.1,  11.2 and 13.2, the PRA expects that a firm would be able to identify the account for   each and all of  those requirements.  I nformation requirements during   transition period  4.19   Depositor Protection 11 sets out a number of information requirements firms are expected to  meet.   Depositor   Protection 11.3 and 11.4   require that firms upon receipt of a request must be able  to provide the FSCS with the aggregated amounts of eligible depos its of each and every depositor.  Depositor Protection   11.5 and 11.6 require that a firm upon receipt of a request must be able to  provide the FSCS with all information necessary to enable the FSCS to prepare for the payment of  compensation   and that they mu st provide this information to the FSCS to enable the FSCS to pay  compensation within the applicable time period.  4.20   The PRA expects that firms would meet the above requirements through the use of an SCV file  and exclusions file containing all eligible deposi tors.  4.21   During the transition period   when Depositor Protection 11 applies, where firms may not have  yet included the eligible deposits of large corporates or small local authorities in their SCV files or  where firms do not   yet have an SCV file, the PRA expe cts these firms to give consideration to what  information would be needed by the FSCS in a failure scenario. 6   Firms should be capable of  demonstrating they have a plan in place to obtain the necessary information to meet the  requirements, should they recei ve a request from the FSCS or PRA.  4.22   For example, where a firm currently has insufficient information to report the aggregate  amount for their large corporate deposits and small local authority deposits on an individual legal  entity basis, the PRA   expects   th e firm to have a plan in place for how they would obtain this  information upon receipt of a request from the FSCS or PRA.  4.23   Deleted .  4.24   For the avoidance of doubt, firms are not required to collect this information to meet the  requirements ahead of such a reque st, only to have a credible plan in place to do so in the event of a  6   Refer to footnote on p.6. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

request. The PRA reserves the right to request firms do implement the plan where it is required, for  example, if the PRA is contingency planning for the event of failure of the firm.  4.25   Rega rding Depositor Protection 11.5 and 11.6, the PRA considers that the FSCS may request  this information at any time, although during the transition period the PRA would not expect such a  request to be made as a matter of course.  4.26   Regarding   Depositor   Protecti on 11.6, the PRA expects that the timeline for delivery of the  relevant information to FSCS will be subject to supervisory judgement and depend on the nature and  complexity of the firm and the given scenario.  Temporary high balances  5.1   For the avoidance of do ubt, firms are not required to mark or verify balances qualifying as  temporary high balances under PRA rules. This is for the FSCS to determine, in accordance with PRA  rules, after default.  Dormant accounts   —   information   requirements  6.1   Dormant Account Scheme   27.2 sets out that a firm must, following a request from the PRA or  FSCS, provide the FSCS with all information it holds relating to the dormant accounts it has  transferred to a dormant account funds operator which is necessary to enable the FSCS to prepa re  for the payment of compensation.  6.2   The information that the PRA expects a firm to provide to the FSCS following a request should  include, where held, the following in respect of each eligible claimant:     the claimant’s name;     the claimant’s date of birth;     th e claimant’s address;     the details of the account from which the dormant account balance was transferred including  the account number and sort code; and     the eligible dormant account balance.  6.3   For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA does not expect firms to take   steps to contact dormant  account   holders where information set out above is not held. The PRA does not expect firms to  provide records in a particular format.  6.4   The   PRA   does not expect firms to provide aggregate protected dormant account balances per  deposit or to the FSCS.  Calculation of levies  7.1   Depositor   Protection   43 sets out the PRA’s rule for calculating the FSCS tariff base for deposit -  takers (the Class A tariff base). Depositor Protection 43.2 requires firms to do this calculation on the  basis of covered   deposits from the SCV file. Depositor Protection 43.1 requires firms to include the  total balance of deposits in any account which holds funds to which the account holder is not This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

absolutely entitled. Any funds which the firm has confirmed are not covered d eposits may be  excluded.  7.2   Deleted.  7.3   Deleted.  7.4   For deposit - takers newly within scope of the FSCS following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU,  refer to Chapter 13. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Single Customer V iew  Submission requirements  8.1   Depositor Protection 12.1 and 12.2 set out that a firm must provide an SCV file and an  exclusions   file   to the PRA or the FSCS within 24 hours of a deposit becoming an unavailable deposit  or request by the PRA or the FSCS. The PRA considers that the beginni ng of the 24 - hour period can  be taken as the end of the business day on which the request was made. The PRA or the FSCS may  request the submission of an SCV file and exclusions file at any time, including as part of the business  as usual review programme.   As such, firms should be ready and able to submit SCV and exclusions  files to the PRA and FSCS upon request, and within the time period set out in the depositor  protection rules.  8.2   Depositor Protection 50.7 allows a firm with fewer than 5,000 eligible accoun ts to continue to  opt out of the electronic elements of SCV requirements during the transition period. There is no such  opt - out following the transition period. The PRA considers that firms may meet Rules   12 .4, 12.7,  50.5 and 50.6 using a range of options   based on their size and volume of deposits/accounts,  including externally provided SCV systems, internal bespoke SCV systems, or widely available  spreadsheet software (eg Excel), as long as in all cases the rule requirements are met, including the  automati c identification of covered deposits.  Keys and codes  8.3   Depositor Protection 14.5 sets out that firms must provide information on any keys or codes  used by the firm internally. These keys and codes can provide useful information for the FSCS on  how   different   accounts should be treated, including whether there is any reason why the account is  not fit for straight through payout. For example, this could be the case if a depositor needs a letter in  a different format or if post sent to the depositor’s house was   r eturned because the depositor was  no longer at that address. The PRA expects firms to consider the purpose for which the FSCS will use  this information and consider what information the FSCS may find useful.  Definition of material change  8.4   Depositor Protecti on 14.3 sets out what a firm must do after a material change in its SCV  system. The PRA considers that a material change would include any change that would have a  material impact on the firm’s SCV system. For example, there is likely to be a material chan ge in a  firm’s SCV system upon a merger or acquisition of a deposit book, or the introduction of a new IT  system that relates to the firm’s SCV system.  8.5   The PRA considers that minor changes to a firm’s SCV system (such as to achieve the SCV  changes outlined   in Depositor Protection Chapter 50) would not constitute a material change to the  SCV system. However, the full implementation of the SCV changes required under Depositor  Protection Chapter 12, or significant steps towards this, would be considered a mate rial change.  Similarly, the full implementation of the marking requirements under Depositor Protection Chapters  11 and 13 would be considered a material change to systems to satisfy marking requirements.  8.6   A similar interpretation applies in relation to Depo sitor Protection 15.2, where a material change  in a   firm’s   Continuity of Access (CoA) systems includes any change that would have a material impact  on the firm’s CoA systems. For example, a merger or acquisition of a deposit book and/or an IT  upgrade that   impacts the SCV file.  8.7   Depositor Protection 14.3, 15.3, 49.4 and 51.4 set out that a firm must notify the PRA and the  FSCS within three months of a material change to its systems to meet marking, SCV, and   CoA  requirements, including an attestation from the   firm’s governing body that its systems are compliant This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

with the relevant PRA requirements. The PRA considers that the full implementation of marking  requirements in Depositor Protection Chapter 11; the full implementation of the SCV requirements  in Depositor   Protection Chapter 12; and the full implementation of CoA requirements in Depositor  Protection Chapter 13 would each constitute a material change. The PRA and the FSCS may also  request a marking effectiveness report, SCV effectiveness report, and CoA repo rt at any time, and  firms should be ready and able to submit such reports to the PRA and FSCS promptly upon request.  The PRA may then consider if further verification of a firm’s measures to meet the relevant  requirements is appropriate.  8.7A The PRA consi ders that the implementation of the adjustment to the deposit protection limit  described in Chapter 12 is not a material change for the purposes of Depositor Protection 14.3 and  15.3.  8.8   The PRA   expects   that firms will begin to make progress towards final ru les during the transition  period up to December 2016. In order to ensure firms are able to implement Depositor Protection  Chapters 12 to 15 ahead of the required implementation date, if so desired, the PRA considers that  firms may submit SCV files and repo rts during the transition period compliant with Depositor  Protection Chapters 50 and 51, but including the additional provisions set out in Depositor  Protection Chapters 12 to 15.  SCV file format  8.9   Where firms do not hold the data required to be included in   the SCV or exclusions file or the  data are not applicable, corresponding fields in the SCV and exclusion files should remain empty.  Even if these   fields   are empty, the PRA expects these fields to remain in the SCV file and the  exclusions file, so that the   files are standard in length. Fields should always appear in the same   order  set out in Depositor Protection 12.9. Completion of all fields is mandatory unless otherwise indicated  (ie not applicable or not held by the firm (where not mandatory)). Firms must   complete all fields  where data are mandatory, or where applicable and held by the   firm.  8.10   Any   relevant   additional information concerning data in the SCV or exclusions file, such as the  unverified nature of any data, should be included in Field 36 (as set ou t in Depositor Protection  12.9).  8.11   Depositor Protection 12.4 states that firms must submit their information in a format which is  readily   compatible with the FSCS’s system. There are three formats that are considered compatible:     Format   one: a firm should sen d through the information in four files. File one should contain  ‘Customer details’, file two should contain ‘Contact details’, file three should contain ‘Details of  account(s)’ and file four should contain ‘Aggregate balance details’.     Format two: a firm s hould send through the information in two files. One file should contain  ‘Customer details’, ‘Contact details’ and ‘Aggregate balance details’ and one file should contain  the ‘Details of account(s)’.     Format three: a firm should send through one file which   contains ‘Customer details’, ‘Contact  details’, ‘Aggregate balance details’ and ‘Details of account(s)’.  8.12   Firms should use one of these three formats for both the SCV and exclusions file. They do not  have to use the   same   format for each. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

8.13   For all of these fo rmats, a ‘single line format’ should be used. This means that customer  information should all be kept on the same line. Where depositors have more than one account, this  information can be on separate lines.  8.14   Where there is more than one file, each deposito r should be linked with their unique identifier  (the single customer view record number).  8.15   For file types which do not automatically separate fields a ‘|’ should be used as delimiter. For  example, this would apply to .txt files.  8.16   File names should follow the   format FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSSCVFormatW.xxx for a SCV  file or   FRNxxx - YYYYMMDDHHMMSSEXCFormatW.xxx for an exclusions file. Firms should insert their  FRN number and the date and time that the SCV file was created. ‘FormatW’   should be replaced  with informatio n about what is contained within the file according to the following:     For format one, this should be four files called ‘Customerdetails’, ‘Contactdetails’,  ‘Detailsofaccount’ and ‘Aggregatebalancedetails’.     For format two, this should be called   ‘Detailsofaccount’ and ‘Customerandaccountinformation’.     For format three, this should be called ‘Full’.  8.17   Where   Depositor Protection 12.9 does not specify a numeric form, firms can submit in an  alphanumeric or numeric form.  Secure electronic submission  8.18   Depos itor Protection 12.4 specifies that the SCV and exclusions files should be sent by secure  electronic   transmission. This can be via Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) or via web portal upload.  The details of both methods are available through the FSCS web site.  Name  8.19   When completing the SCV or exclusions file, firms should consider the forename and surname  fields as   mandatory   for natural persons. For companies, only the surname field is   mandatory.  National identification (ID)  8.20   Where firms hold identification   numbers for depositors on file, they should include this in the  SCV or exclusion file under field 11 in Depositor Protection 12.9. Where a firm holds identification  numbers other than the National Insurance number or passport number of the depositor, the f irm  should explain what type of identification number it holds and provide the unique number. Examples  of national ID include a photocard national identity card or a driving licence.  Country where account is domiciled  8.21   Field 39 in Depositor Protection 12.9   requires firms to provide information in the SCV or  exclusions file on the location of the branch where the account is held. This may be different to the  country where the   depositor has their address.   After   the end of the transition period associated with  the UK’s withdrawal from the EU   , deposits are only   eligible   if they are held by a DGS member in an  establishment in the UK (or a UK firm’s establishment in Gibraltar). Firms with only UK branches  should indicate that the deposits are held in the United Ki ngdom using ISO 3166 - 1 (‘GBR’). Eligible  deposits held in a Gibraltar branch should be marked (‘GIB’). This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Format of exclusions file  8.22   For inactive accounts or   beneficiary   accounts, the PRA expects firms to use the same format as  the SCV file structure and provide the same information as required for the SCV file.  8.23   For beneficiary accounts, the PRA expects firms to supply details of the contact for the  client/trust   account ,   rather than the underlying beneficiary.  Dormant accounts  8.24   Dormant   accounts that meet the definition in the Dormant Banks and Building Societies  Accounts Act 2008 should be placed in the exclusions file. The PRA would expect all such accounts,  even if not tr ansferred to a dormant account provider, to be excluded from the SCV file.  8.25   For otherwise - active accounts, it should be recorded in field 38 of the SCV file, whether there  has been any transaction relating to the deposit within the 24 months prior to produc tion of the  single customer view. The PRA and the FSCS recognise that for some accounts such inactivity may  not be indicative of possible dormancy (eg fixed term accounts),   and the FSCS will use judgement in  the paying out of such deposits within applicabl e timeframes.  Calculating interest  8.26   Depositor Protection 5.9 sets out the requirements for calculating interest. The PRA expects  firms to apply the interest accrued to date regardless of the date that it is usually   credited to  balances in the SCV and exclus ion file.  Calculating the return on certain structured deposits  8.27   In the case of structured deposits firms may not be able to accurately predict the return  because the   calculation   of the return is based on the growth of an index as at the maturity date of  th e structured deposit. If that is the case, firms should flag this type of product in the SCV file and  only add interest accrued prior to the product start date and any minimum return to the account  balance in the SCV file.  Balances  8.28   Accounts which may conta in eligible deposits but are in negative balance should also be  recorded in the SCV file and exclusions file. Fields 42, 45, and 47 of the file should record a negative  balance with a ‘ – ’ preceding it. Field 42 and 45 should reflect any interest due to be   paid by the  depositor. Field 48 should list a zero balance for accounts in negative balance. Fields 50 and 51 are  just in relation to positive balances, so any accounts with negative balances should not be included  in calculations related to these fields.  In - flight transactions  9.1   This chapter provides more information on the PRA’s expectations concerning the treatment of  in - flight transactions covered under Depositor Protection 12.14. The PRA understands that each  firm’s approach may differ depending on the t iming of end of day processes, speed to produce the  SCV file and the type of access to each payment system. The PRA will allow each firm the freedom to  satisfy Depositor Protection 12.14 within the scope of their own processes and external  relationships. T herefore this SS sets out the PRA’s expectations in general terms. It does not provide  detail or prescribe the settlement processes   between banks (between settlement banks or between  settlement banks and their agency/customer banks). Settlement bank and ag ency/customer bank in  this context can refer to all deposit - takers, including building societies and credit unions. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

9.2   Firms should   consider   the information in this chapter alongside their own processes and  relationships with the financial market infrastructures (FMIs) or settlement banks. They should apply  this guidance to each payment type accordingly. This will help ensure consistency acros s the industry  in a transfer of deposit book or an FSCS payout.  9.3   The PRA would expect the same process to apply for payments both where the failed firm is a  direct member of a payment scheme and where it is an indirect member of a payment system,  where poss ible.  What are in - flight transactions?  9.4   The PRA considers an in - flight transaction to be a payment where not all the underlying cash  movements   comprising   the complete transaction are complete.  9.5   In - flight transactions may be incoming payments to depositors’ a ccounts for which the firm has  not yet   received   value but which are reflected on the depositor’s balance, and/or outgoing  payments which have been reflected on the depositor’s account but for which the firm may not yet  have made a corresponding outgoing pa yment. There may also be in - flight transactions that have  neither settled (or, in the case of an indirect member, been received by the depositors’ firm) nor  been reflected on depositors’ accounts.  9.6   In - flight transactions may arise where there is deferred ne t settlement. There may also be in -  flight transactions arising where indirect members of payment schemes do not have a real - time flow  of settled funds from their settlement bank.  9.7   At the point of resolution or insolvency there is likely to be a number of pa yments still moving  through payment systems that have either not yet settled at bank level or been credited or debited  into   depositors’ accounts. Depositor Protection 12.14 sets out how these in - flight payments must be  treated in the SCV file. This rule is   intended to ensure, in so far as possible, that the balance a  depositor can see at the end of the business day matches the balance in the SCV file. In - flight  transactions will be dealt with by the insolvency practitioner or administrator after a resolutio n.  However, it is important that firms understand how to treat in - flight transactions in the SCV file to  ensure a consistent approach. There will need to be a process of reconciliation between the  insolvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS and any   acquiring firm (as relevant).  How settlement banks should respond  9.8   Settlement banks should have processes in place to support the transfer (part or whole) of its  customer/agency bank’s ( indirect   member) deposit book in a resolution, as appropriate. This sho uld  include the provision of continued access to their services. Settlement banks will also be expected to  comply with previously published guidance. 7  Principles  9.9   All payments for which funds have been received by the depositor’s firm intraday should be  ref lected on the   depositor’s   accounts and therefore in the account balance field in the SCV or  exclusions file by close of business.  9.10   Some payments may be reflected on depositors’ accounts before they have been settled  between firms due to timings in payment s ystems or internal processes. Some timing differences will  7   PRA Supervisory   Statement SS12/13, ‘Settlement bank exposures to customer banks: manag ement of the risks’, April 2013:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2013/settlement - bank - exposures - to - customer - banks -  management - of - the - risks - ss . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

be intraday and some may go across multiple days. Where these payments have already   been  credited or debited to a depositor’s account, even if interbank settlement has not yet completed,  the value   should be included as part of a depositor’s compensatable balance. For example, if a  depositor has made a debit card payment which has reduced the amount of their available balance,  this payment should be excluded from the compensatable amount in the SCV f ile.  9.11   For payments that have not been reflected on accounts and where the depositor does not  continue to have access to their account it is possible that these payments will need to settle and  then be returned as unapplied payments. Firms should consider if   this impacts on their processes.  9.12   Depositor Protection 12.14 states that payments debited from a depositor’s account should be  excluded   from the SCV and exclusions file regardless of whether the firm has sent the value itself.  However, where possible, payments debited that have not yet been entered into the payment  system should be reapplied to a depositor’s account. For example, amounts   debited may have been  credited to a suspense account. This will then form part of a depositor’s compensation balance in  the SCV or exclusions file.  9.13   The PRA recognises that there will be a small number of payments that are not known about at  the point of r esolution but where the depositor has already committed to making that payment by  taking goods or services in exchange. Any irrevocable debits (for example, overseas debit card  transactions) that have not been reflected on the SCV file may need to go throu gh a process of  reconciliation with the insolvency practitioner or administrator, the FSCS and any acquiring firm (as  relevant).  SCV file timing  9.14   When creating their SCV systems, firms should work on the basis that the point in time on  which they should bas e their account snapshot for the purpose of in - flight transactions will be close  of   business   on the effective date of the relevant insolvency order issued by the court or the relevant  transfer instrument issued by the Bank of England, or the date on which   a request is made by the  FSCS or the PRA.  Relationship with payment schemes  9.15   The PRA recognises that both CoA and in - flight transactions may carry implications for firms’  relationships with payment schemes. The Bank is working closely with UK payment system s and  their   members to identify practical issues that banks’ interaction with payment systems could raise  when we are seeking to resolve a member bank. Other than the in - flight transaction treatment rules,  there are no direct requirements on firms to devel op additional measures in terms of payment  systems in relation to the Depositor Protection requirements other than a general expectation that  access to accounts being transferred through CoA and payment instructions associated with these  accounts should be   maintained so that payments can continue to be made during and following  resolution.  Continuity of A ccess  10.1   This chapter sets out additional details on how a deposit book transfer in resolution might  work to set   the   PRA’s expectations in context and provide   more information for firms as to how  systems changes may be used. The PRA would expect the rules in Depositor Protection Chapters 11  to 15 to be read alongside this chapter. Refer also to paragraph 11.5. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

10.2   The PRA’s rules in Depositor Protection Chapters 12   and 13 set out systems requirements that  will facilitate continued access to accounts for eligible depositors, including the ability to make  payments, where accounts are transferred from a failed firm to another financial institution.  10.3   It is possible that   deposits that are not covered by the FSCS may not be transferred and would  be dealt with as claims in the insolvency or administration of the failed firm. This follows the same  expectation as the bank or building society insolvency procedure (BIP/BSIP) or   administration  procedure, when only eligible deposits are subject to a seven - day payout by the FSCS.  10.4   Accounts that are included in the exclusions file and temporary high balances may not be  transferred and instead may be paid out, as relevant, by the FSCS,   in line with relevant timescales.  10.5   The PRA determines in Depositor Protection 13.8 that it should be operationally feasible for  firms’ systems to freeze deposit accounts that are not identified under Depositor   Protection 11.1  within five hours of a resolut ion and a request of the PRA. The PRA considers that the minimum  result of freezing an account should be that a customer is unable to move money into or out of the  account.  Account separation  10.6   Depositor Protection 13.4 to 13.8 require firms to create and ma intain systems that enable the  firm to separate uncovered from covered balances and place the uncovered   balances into a separate  suspense or shadow account at the point of resolution and on the request of the PRA, within 48  hours. The legal ownership of th e covered deposits remaining in the account will be transferred to  an acquiring institution, but the deposit account remains operational on the failed bank’s systems  providing the depositor with continued access to their account. Subsequent to the resoluti on  weekend, the PRA would expect the acquiring institution to over time migrate the depositors’  accounts onto their own systems.  10.7   Firms may choose either to set up a single suspense account or individual shadow accounts for  each account from which   uncovered deposits will be transferred. Firms can   choose whether they  would want to create the separate accounts within the core banking system ahead of resolution or  demonstrate that they have designed a system with the capability to create these features   at the  point of resolution. If firms decide that they wish to create shadow accounts ahead of resolution, the  PRA expects firms to demonstrate good control processes and to provide appropriate assurance to  manage any risks as part of CoA reporting under D epositor Protection 15.7.  10.8   The PRA expects that firms should have sufficient record keeping procedures to enable all  deposit   values   to be reconciled effectively back to the original account and depositor. The PRA  would highlight this is particularly relevan t where single suspense accounts are used.  10.9   The PRA expects firms to use the information in the SCV file as the means to establish a  depositor’s covered and uncovered balance.  Overdrafts  10.10   Depositor Protection 13.6 and 13.7 require a firm to create and mainta in systems that enable  it to move negative balances in accounts which may contain eligible deposits into a separate  suspense or shadow account at the point of resolution and on the request of the PRA, within 48  hours. This would leave the previously overdr awn account with a zero balance. The principles in  paragraphs 10.6 to 10.9 of SS18/15 apply equally to such systems. SCV and CoA requirements in  relation to accounts with a negative balance apply to the same deposit accounts that would  otherwise be include d in the SCV and exclusions files. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

10.11   Any such movement of negative balances will depend on the circumstances of resolution, so a  firm must be able to achieve the movement of deposits not forming part of the   transferable eligible  deposit both in circumstances   where a movement of negative balances is also required and in  circumstances when not, as instructed by the PRA. This optionality will support achieving a CoA  transfer including overdrawn accounts to an acquiring firm (either with a negative balance or zer o  balance) depending on the circumstances in a resolution.  10.12   In certain circumstances, a negative balance on an account may not have previously been  agreed between a depositor and a firm, for example due to an unauthorised overdraft or a cheque  failing to cl ear. This may be a relevant factor in considering if CoA is appropriate, and therefore firms  should report the maximum authorised negative balance allowable on an account in the SCV and  exclusions file, in the Authorised negative balances field (field 43).  Account details in transfer  10.13   Wherever possible, to support continuity of payments, the PRA expects account details (such  as the sort - code, account number and debit card details) to remain unchanged at the point of  resolution for an account   that   is transfer red. The PRA would expect that as part of the migration of  the accounts to the acquiring banks systems, following the resolution weekend, it may be necessary  for the acquiring bank to set up new account details.  Hierarchy of accounts  10.14   Depositor Protection 1 3.5 requires firms to apply a hierarchy to eligible accounts where the  depositor has multiple eligible accounts and their aggregate balance is over the covered limit. Firms  should ensure that all products are categorised according to the categories in Depo sitor Protection  13.5 to ensure the hierarchy is adhered to. Where a product could fall into several categories, it  should be recorded as the highest of these categories in the hierarchy. Where a product cannot  reasonably be placed into one of the categori es, the ‘other’ category should be used.  10.15   To meet the objective of enabling CoA to deposits the hierarchy is designed to ensure  continuity is maintained for accounts with the most regular transactions. The PRA expects the  balance in transactional accounts t o be the last to be reduced while the balance in fixed term  deposits with a term of four years or more should be the first balance to be reduced (second only to  accounts identified as ‘other’). When classifying term products within the hierarchy, the PRA e xpects  that firms would do this on the basis of the original term of the product rather than the term  remaining.  10.16   As long as the requirements in the depositor protection rules are met, firms are free to make  additional arrangements as they see fit based on   other factors, such as system   functionality or the  preferences of depositors in relation to their accounts.  10.17   If a depositor holds several accounts within a category in the hierarchy, the PRA would expect  all accounts within that category to be reduced pari   passu.  Joint accounts  10.18   Depositor Protection 5.4 sets out the treatment of joint accounts generally. In a covered  deposit transfer   using   CoA systems, the PRA expects the hierarchy set out in Depositor Protection  13.5 to apply in the same way to joint account s. For example, if someone had a joint transactional  account, their share of the eligible balance in the transactional account would be the last to be  reduced. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

10.19   If a depositor   holds   a joint account and a single account within a category in the hierarchy, th e  PRA would expect accounts within that category to be reduced pari passu.  Scope of depositor protection   requirements  11.1   The   Depositor   Protection Part applies to all firms, except CoA rules which do not apply to credit  unions.  11.2   The PRA would consider waivers   or modifications to SCV and CoA rules in accordance with  section 138A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) if compliance with a   rule would  be unduly burdensome or would not meet the purpose for which the rule was made, and the  direction wo uld not adversely affect the advancement of any of the PRA objectives (the statutory  tests).  11.3   Relevant factors that the PRA would consider in judging whether the statutory tests had been  met include: the relevance of the requirements to the wider resolution   approach of the firm; the  proximity to the firm to failure; and the level of transactional and instant access accounts held by the  firm. The overall size of the firm, for example, in terms of number of accounts containing eligible  deposits and the amount   of covered deposits held by a firm, would also be a relevant  considerations, including any forward - looking business plans.  11.4   These factors would be assessed in the round so the PRA’s decision on any application for a  waiver or   modification   would depend on th e individual circumstances of the firm applying.  11.5   The PRA has also made available   two   waiver s   by consent   each   which excludes firms from the  scope of CoA rules for a period   of   three years ( from   Thursday   1 December 2016 to   Sunday   1  December 2019   and from Mond ay 2 December 2019 to Thursday 1 December 2022 ). 8   The  conditions for the waiver, as set out in the waiver notice, are that if the firm meets any of the  following three criteria a firm can apply for the waiver:  (i)   the firm had more than £15 billion in total as sets on   the relevant measurement date ;  (ii)   the firm had both of the following on   the relevant measurement date :  (a)   less than £2 billion in covered deposits, and  (b)   fewer than 150,000 depositors; or  (iii)   the firm is an overseas firm that is not an incoming firm   and has a Part 4A permission that  includes accepting deposits.   (Note: following IP completion day, this critera will apply to all  overseas firms (including those of EEA firms) with a Part 4A permission to accept deposits). 9  C hange s   in the deposit protecti on limit  12.1   Deleted.  8   Full details of the criteria and more information on waivers by   consent are available at   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/Authorisations/waivers - and - modifications - of - rules .  9   The UK’s membership of the EU came to an   end on Friday 31 January 2020. The UK entered into a   transition period which lasted   until  11p m on Thursday 31 December 2020 , during which EU law continued to apply to the UK.   11pm on Thursday 31 December 2020   is  defined i n UK law as ‘IP completion day’. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

12.1A This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations around changes to the Depositor Protection Part  arising from the change to the deposit protection limit. The expectations below relate to the change  in the limit from £75,000 to £85,000 i n January 2017. 10   The requirements for a UK branch of a ‘euro  firm’ are not affected. 11  Transitional  12.1B Resetting the deposit protection limit requires consequential changes to firms’ disclosure  materials, advertising materials and SCV/CoA systems to   reflect the new deposit protection limit.  The PRA recognises that it will take time for some firms to amend their materials and systems, so it  has provided firms with a five month transitional period until 30 June 2017 to fully implement the  changes.  12.1 C The PRA expects firms to make these changes as soon as practicable after 30 January 2017  (and in any event on or before 30 June 2017). Making the changes as soon as possible will minimise  the number of depositors provided with materials that reference th e old £75,000 deposit protection  limit and reduce the need for manual intervention of a firm’s SCV file by the FSCS should a firm fail in  the transitional period.  Posters and stickers  12.2   Deleted.  12.2A Annex 2 of the Depositor Protection Part requires ame nded posters and stickers which refer  to the new £85,000 deposit protection limit to be displayed in branches and on websites as soon as  practicable after 30 January 2017 and in any event on or before 30 June 2017. 12   Until such time, the  PRA expects firms t o continue to display the existing posters and stickers (referring to £75,000 in the  form set out in Annex 2 of the Depositor Protection Part).  Information sheet   and exclusion list  12.3   Deleted.  12.3A The PRA expects that the information sheet provided for ack nowledgment purposes at  account opening to reflect the new deposit protection limit as soon as practicable after 30 January  2017 and in any event on or before 30 June 2017.  12.3B The exclusions list in Annex 3 of the Depositor Protection Part requires some of the extra  language supporting the 2015 implementation of the DGSD to be deleted as of 1 January 2017. The  PRA considers it acceptable for firms to make those changes to   the exclusions list at the same time  as it makes the changes to its information sheet to reflect the new £85,000 deposit limit (after 30  January 2017).  12.4   Deleted.  12.4A The PRA does not expect firms to change their existing annual information sheet cycles.  12.5   The PRA   expects   firms should ensure that their systems are flexible enough to accommodate  further limit changes should this be required at a future date.  10   PRA Policy Statement 1/17 ‘Deposit protection limit’ January 2017:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2016/depos it - protection - limit .  11   A ‘euro firm’ is an incoming firm that is a credit institution of an EEA State that has adopted the euro or that does not con vert into  their national currency the amount referred to in Art 6(1) of the DGSD, pursuant to Article 6(5)   of the DGSD.  12   Updated templates for the posters and stickers   are   available on the FSCS’s website:   www.fscs.org.uk . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Other references  12.6   Deleted .  12.6A For the avoidance of doubt, the PRA expects firms to update all rele vant references to the  deposit protection limit (not only where prescribed in PRA rules) as soon as practicable after 30  January 2017 and in any event on or before 30 June 2017. This includes advertising materials,  product literature, website references, e tc.  12.6B The PRA has provided flexibility for firms to update distribution channels, different materials  and individual brands at different times. The PRA encourages firms to consider the possibility that  depositors may receive conflicting information and   expects firms to ensure messaging is consistent,  as far as practicable.  Informing depositors  12.7   Deleted.  12.8   Deleted.  12.8A The PRA expects firms to train customer facing staff to answer questions from customers  about the change in the deposit protection limit   by 30 January 2017 or as soon as practicable after  30 January 2017, regardless of when a firm’s written materials are amended. At a minimum, the PRA  considers this training should include:     what the limit is changing to and when;     who is, and is not, prote cted; and     what are the implications for depositors with aggregate eligible deposits over the new deposit  protection limit.  12.9   Deleted .  12.9A Until such time as staff training is completed, the PRA expects firms’ staff to direct customers  to the FSCS website in the first instance.  Identifying small corporate depositors  12.10   Deleted.  Single Customer View (SCV) and Continuity of Access (CoA) sy stems  12.11   Deleted.  12.11A The PRA expects firms to make changes to their SCV and CoA systems to ensure the  compensatable amount (and transferable eligible deposit, if the CoA rules are applicable to the firm)  as soon as practicable after 30 January 2017 and i n any event on or before 30 June 2017.  12.11B If a firm were to fail after 30 January 2017 but had made use of the transitional period and  not yet updated its systems to reflect the deposit protection limit change, depositors are still  protected to the   £85,000 limit. The FSCS’s processes will be amended to ensure this protection  during the transitional period.  Depositors with aggregate eligible deposits above £75,000  12.12 to 12.27 Deleted. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

UK withdrawal from the EU  13.1   This chapter sets out the PRA’s exp ectations around changes to the Depositor Protection Part  as a result of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  13.2   From IP completion day, the scope of FSCS protection has been amended to protect eligible  deposits held by deposit - takers with FSMA Part 4A permission   to accept deposits, only where those  deposits are held by UK establishments of   such firms (or by UK firms’ establishments in Gibraltar).  13.3   Due to the importance of depositor protection, the PRA is requiring new DGS members (firms  that from   IP completion day   are granted, or deemed to have, Part 4A permission to accept deposits  at an establishment in the UK) to comply with the Depositor Protection Part immediately upon   IP  completion day .  Single Customer View  13.4   Depositor Protection Chapter 12 requires DGS members   (including new DGS members) to be  able to provide SCV and exclusions view files within 24 hours of a request by the PRA or FSCS, or  within 24 hours of deposits becoming unavailable. It also requires firms to provide the FSCS with SCV  and exclusions view f iles within three months of being granted or deemed a Part   4A permission to  accept deposits.  13.4A   The PRA expects firms to comply with applicable data protection requirements when  providing SCV and other data to the FSCS or PRA. Firms are expected to fac tor such requirements  into their plans and systems to deliver information under the Depositor Protection Part.  13.5   Firms with existing Part 4A permissions prior to IP completion day will need to revise their SCV  systems to remove deposits that are no longer el igible, namely deposits held by UK firms’ branches  located in the EEA.  13.6   Chapter 8 of this SS provides further expectations regarding the SCV.  Informing depositors  13.7   Chapter 3 of this SS provides expectations regarding customer disclosure. The following  expect ations are specific to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  Deposits held by UK establishments  New customer disclosure and acknowledgements  13.8   Depositor Protection 16 requires all DGS members (including new DGS members as of IP  completion day) to provide up - to - da te information sheets and exclusions lists in prescribed form to  intending depositors and to obtain an acknowledgment of receipt from the intending depositor,  before entering into a contract on deposit - taking.  13.9   A new exclusions list has been   included in Ann ex 3 of the Depositor Protection Part.  13.10   As noted in paragraphs 3.3 and 3.9, Depositor Protection 16 applies when the deposit is held  by the firm in a UK establishment or by a UK firm’s Gibraltar establishment .  Disclosure to existing depositors  13.11   Depositor Protection 17.3 requires new DGS members (firms that are becoming new DGS  members immediately   upon   IP completion day   under the Temporary Permission Regime or This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

Supervised Run - off Regime) to provide a revised information sheet and exclusions list to   existing  depositors with deposits held in a UK establishment within two months after   IP completion day .  13.12   The provision of the information sheet and exclusion list required by Depositor Protection  17.3 will also count for the purposes of the obligation unde r Depositor Protection 17.1 to provide  that information annually, and accordingly will ‘reset’ the annual obligation.  13.13   Depositor Protection 17.1(3) applies when the deposit is held by the firm in a UK  establishment (or by a UK firm’s Gibraltar establishmen t).  Posters and stickers  13.14   The Depositor Protection Part requires firms to display posters and stickers which refer to  FSCS protection to be displayed in branches and on websites. The PRA expects new DGS members to  remove previous posters and stickers (that   referred to coverage by home DGSs) and meet the  requirements in respect of the updated materials reflecting FSCS coverage on the day following   IP  completion day. 13  Staff Training  13.15   The PRA expects new DGS members to train customer facing staff to answer questions from  customers about the fact that the FSCS is now providing depositor protection for deposits held by  the   DGS member at a UK establishment.  Deposits held by UK firms’ EEA b ranches  13.16   From IP completion day, deposits held by UK firms’ establishments outside the UK will not be  protected by the FSCS.  Information about removal of FSCS protection  13.17   Depositor Protection 20.3 requires UK firms with establishments in the EEA, whose depos its  will no longer be protected by the FSCS following IP completion   day ,   to notify affected depositors  within one month beginning on the day following   IP completion day. Firms should not send these  notifications before   IP completion day.  Other references  13.18   T he PRA expects both UK firms with establishments in the EEA and new DGS members to  update all relevant references to depositor protection to reflect the new scope of protection.  Levies  13.19   As a result of falling within the scope of the FSCS, EEA firms that hav e Part 4A permission (or  deemed Part 4A permission) with effect   from IP completion day will have joined the FSCS part way  through a levy year. These firms will be required to pay levies in respect of FSCS base costs for the  current year, and other FSCS lev ies (eg, compensation cost levies) starting with the FSCS’s next levy  year. This is not a change in policy, but how the FSCS levy rules in the PRA Rulebook apply in light of  IP completion day occurring part way through a levy year.  13   Updated templates for the posters and stickers   will be   available on the FSCS’s website:   www.fscs.org.uk . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

A nnex   -   SS18/15   –   upd ates  This a nnex details changes made to SS18 /15 following its initial publication in   April   2015 following  PS6/15 ‘ Depositor and dormant account protection ’ . 14  2021  March 2021  The SS was updated following publication of PS 4 /21 ‘Depositor protection: Identity   verification’. 15  The update added paragraph 2.10 to introduce a new expectation that, in the event that identity  verification has not been carried out on a depositor or ultimate beneficiary ahead of the  compensation date,   the relevant insolvency practition er would be allowed to facilitate the identity  verification for the purposes of determining eligibility for FSCS protection, under PRA rules.  Minor changes have also been made to correct formatting errors and improve readability.  2020  December 2020  As a   result of extensions to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU ,   some updates were required to this SS  as compared to the near - final versions published in February and April 2019.  Changes to SS18/15:     paragraph 4.19 was amended to include an additional footnote to   clarify the ‘transition  period’ referred to in certain sections of this document is not in respect of EU withdrawal;     a typographical error (misplaced words) was corrected in paragraphs 4.20 and 4.21;     paragraph 11.5 was updated to reflect the most recently   published waiver by consent  available in respect of the PRA’s Continuity of Access rules; and     references to ‘exit’ and ‘exit day’ in the body of the SS were replaced with ‘IP completion  day’ (paragraphs 8.15 and Chapter 13).  2019  April 2019  As a result of   the delay in   exit day   (as it was termed at the time), at the time of making final rules to  account for the possibility of a no - deal withdrawal from the EU some updates were required to this  SS as compared to the near - final version published in February.  Ch anges to SS18/15 as a result of the delay in   exit day   (as it was termed at the time):     A footnote defining exit day was removed from paragraph 13.2; and     Paragraph 13.19 was amended to reflect the way the FSCS levy rules apply to firms that join  the FSCS par t way through a levy year (specifically, after 31 March 2019, rather than before).  This is not a change in policy, but how the FSCS levy rules in the PRA Rulebook apply in light  of the delay in exit day (as it was termed at the time) past the original 29 M arch 2019 date.  14   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ps/2015/ps615.aspx .  15   March 2021:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/january/depositor - protection - identity -  verification . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

February 2019  An updated version of SS18/15 was published to reflect a no - deal withdrawal from the EU, as part of  a joint Bank of England and PRA Policy Statement 5/ 19 ‘The Bank of England’s amendments to  financial services legislation unde r the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018’ 16 . In the event there  is no implementation period, the following updates apply to reflect changes to depositor protection  in light of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU .  Changes to SS18/15 consulted upon as part of C P26/18:     Chapter 2   –   paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3 were amended to reflect rule changes;     Chapter 3   –   paragraphs 3.1 and 3.27 were updated to direct the reader to Chapter 13 for  expectations regarding the UK’s withdrawal, and paragraphs 3.3 and 3.9 were amended to  reflect rule changes;     Chapter 4   –   paragraphs 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 4.19 were updated to remove references to the  recast Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD), 4.12 was updated to reflect rule  changes, and 4.22 was deleted;     Chapter 7   –   paragraph 7.4 was ad ded;     Chapter 8   –   paragraph 8.21 was amended to reflect rule changes;     Chapter 13 was added.  Changes made post - consultation:     Paragraphs 2.2, 2.3, 3.3, 3.9, 4.12, 8.21, 13.2, 13.10   and   13.13 were amended to reflect the  UK’s post - exit depositor protection poli cy in respect of UK firms’ Gibraltarian branches;     Paragraph 13.3 was clarified.     Paragraph 13.4A was added to make explicit that the PRA expects firms to comply with  applicable data protection   requirements   when providing SCV and other data to the FSCS or  PRA;     Paragraph 13.11 was amended to clarify the meaning of new DGS members relati ng to  Depositor Protection 17.3;     Paragraph 13.17 was amended to reflect new numbering in Depositor Protection 20.  2017  19   September 2017  An updated version of SS18/15 was published. The update was to section 3.16 where the PRA is  providing clarity to firms on the use of the FSCS badge on the Information Sheet contained in Annex  1 of the Depositor Protection Part.  16 January 2 017  16   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/the - boes - amendments - to - financial - services - legislation - under - the - eu - wi thdrawal - act -  2018 . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

This SS was updated following publication of PS1/17 ‘Deposit protection limit’. 17   The following  updates have been mad e to reflect revised guidance and procedures for the changes to the deposit  protection limit from £75,000 to £85,000:     Chapter 7   –   paragr aphs 7.2 and 7.3 have been deleted;     Chapters 8   –   paragraph 8.7A has been added;     Chapter 11   –   paragrap h 11.5 has been added; and     Chapter 12   –   paragraph 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.6, 12.7, 12.8, 12.9, 12.10, 12.11 and 12.12 -  12.27 have been deleted, and parag raphs 12.1A - C, 12.2A, 12.3A, 12.3B,   12.4A 12.6A , 12.8A,  12.9A, 12.11A and 12.11B have been added.  Other changes have been made throughout the SS to improve cross - referencing between chapters  and terminology (eg referring to ‘chapters’ instead of ‘sections ’).  2015  31 July 2015  Chapter 2 was updated to include paragraph 2.9 following PS18/15 ’Depositor and dormant account  protection   –   consequential amendments’.  Chapter 3 was updated to reflect changes following CP23/15 and PS18/15 ’Depositor and dormant  acc ount protection   –   consequential amendments’. The main updates are on application,  amendments to the information sheet and method of communication. Paragraph 3.4 as published in  SS18/15 on 20 July 2015 has been deleted and paragraphs 3.1, 3.3 - 3.7, 3.9, 3.11 , 3.12, 3.14, 3.16 -  3.21 and 3.23 are new or have been amended.  20 July 2015  An updated version of SS18/15 was published. The only updates to the version published on 3 July  2015 are to section 12 regarding the provision of the information sheet before 1 J anuary 2016 and  the requirement to notify depositors of the limit change. The PRA has updated this section to advise  that firms discuss options with their supervisor (for example where they face challenges in meeting  the relevant requirements).  3 July 2015  SS18/15 was updated and published alongside PS14/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account protection -  the protection limit’ 18   and PS15/15 ‘Depositor and policyholder protection   -   technical  amendments’. 19   The main updates relate to amendments made in PS14/15   concerning the change in  the deposit protection limit.  20 May 2015  SS18/15 was updated and published alongside PS9/15 ‘Depositor and dormant account protection   –  further amendments’ 20   in response to proposals set out in CP15/15 ‘Depositor and dormant accoun t  17   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/deposit - protection - limit .  18   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection - the -  protection - limit .  19   July 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - pol icyholder - protection -  technical - amendments .  20   May 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulatio n/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection -  further - amendments . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded

protection   –   further amendments’. 21   The main updates relate to Continuity of Access requirements  in relation to overdrafts, dormant account scheme rules, and the treatment of small local  authorities.  21   April 2015:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/depositor - and - dormant - account - protection -  further - amendments . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/depositor-and-dormant-account-protection-ss Superseded


