---
title: "SS24/15 – Ss2415update June 2019"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2019/ss2415update-june-2019.pdf"
---

# SS24/15 – Ss2415update June 2019

Supervisory Statement |   24/15  The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks  June 2019  ( U pd ating   April 2018 ) 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Supervisory Statement   |   24/15  The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks  June 2019  (Updating   April 2018 )  ©   Bank of England 2019  Prudential Regulation Authority   |   20 Moorgate   |   London EC2R 6DA 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Contents  Introduction   1  2   The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process   2  3   The Liquidity   Supervisory   Review and Evaluation Process (L - SREP)   1 0  4   Drawing   down liquid asset buffers   1 2  5   Collateral placed at the Bank of England   1 2  6   Reporting   1 3  7   Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance   1 4  Appendices   15  Annex   -   Changes to   SS24/15   20 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   1  Introduction  This supervisory statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) approach to  supervising   liquidity and funding risks. It is add ressed to firms to which CRD IV 1   applies.  The statement should be read alongside the ‘Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment’ part of the  PRA Rulebook (ILAA rules), the ‘Liquidity Coverage Requirement   —   UK Designated Investment Firms’  part of the PRA Rulebook; the PRA’s approach to bankin g supervision; 2   Part Six (Liquidity) of the  Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) and the European Commission Delegated Act with regards to  the liquidity coverage requirement (LCR) for credit institutions (‘Delegated Act’). 3   The PRA’s  approach is informed   by the European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) guidelines for common  procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP). 4   The PRA  expects firms to have regard to the detail contained in Titles 8 and 9 of the EBA SREP Guideli nes to  understand the PRA’s expectations of them in respect of liquidity and funding risk management and  control.  The Delegated Act specifies in detail the LCR provided for in CRR Article 412 and is directly  applicable in the United Kingdom. It took effect   from 1 October 2015. The Delegated Act only applies  to credit institutions. PRA - designated investment firms must comply with the obligations laid down in  the Delegated Act as they apply to credit institutions, by   virtue of rule 2.1 of the ‘LCR   —   UK  design ated   investment firms’ Part of the PRA Rulebook. They should read references in this  statement to the Delegated Act accordingly.  The PRA is required under CRD IV to apply the Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation  Process (L - SREP) and any supervisory   measures in accordance with the level of application of the  requirements set out in the CRD IV framework. Therefore, the ILAA rules, including the requirement  to carry out an Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), apply on an individual ba sis  and on a consolidated basis where firms must comply with Part Six (Liquidity) of the CRR on a  consolidated basis. This enables the PRA to apply the L - SREP and any supervisory measures at both  individual and consolidated level, where appropriate.  This s tatement is structured as follows:     Section 2: The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.     Section 3: The Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process.     Section 4: Drawing down Liquid Asset Buffers.     Section 5: Collateral placed at the Bank of   England.     Section 6: Reporting.  1   CRD IV   implements the international regulatory framework for banks know as Basel 3 in Europe. The legislation comprises two  instruments: the Capital Requirements Regulation (575/2013) (CRR) and the Capital Requirements Directive (2013/36/EU)(CRD),  jointly known   as ‘CRD IV’.(2) .  2   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/supervision .  3   European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 of 10 October 2014 to   supplement Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the  European Parliament and the Council with regard to liquidity coverage requirement for Credit Institutions.  4   European Banking Authority: ‘Guidelines for common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory   review and evaluation  process (SREP)’, available at   https://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation - and - policy/supervisory - review - and - evaluation - srep - and - pillar -  2/guidelines - for - common - procedures - and - methodologies - for - the - supervisory - review - and - evaluation - process - srep - . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   2  The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process  The ILAA rules require firms to identify, measure, manage and monitor liquidity and funding risks  across different time horizons and stress scenarios, consistent with the r isk appetite established by  the firm’s management body. A firm must carry out an ILAAP in accordance with the ILAA rules, and  the ILAAP should be proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s activities as set  out in Chapter 13 of the ILA A rules.  An ILAAP document sets out a firm’s approach to liquidity and funding. It should be updated  annually, or more frequently if changes in the business, strategy, nature or scale of its activities or  operational environment suggest that the current le vel of liquid resources or the firm’s funding  profile is no longer adequate.  ILAAP governance  The PRA expects the ILAAP to be the responsibility of a firm’s management body. 5   The ILAAP  document must be approved by the management body and be consistent with   the risk appetite set  by the management body. It also must be consistent with the firm’s approach for measuring and  managing liquidity and funding risks. The management body is also expected to ensure that the  ILAAP is well integrated into management proc esses and the firm’s decision - making culture.  Producing an ILAAP document  As a general guide, the PRA expects that the ILAAP document which supports its liquidity review  and evaluation process is in line with the EBA guidelines on common procedures and met hodologies  for SREP 6   and aligns with the further guidance in this supervisory statement. The PRA has provided a  template in Appendix 1 as a guide for firms when producing their ILAAP documents.  The PRA recognises that for small firms with simple business m odels it may not be necessary to  follow the template, or   all   elements in the template, provided all the key aspects are covered. This  approach is consistent with the PRA’s secondary competition objective. The PRA expects the  document to be firm specific, not prepared in a formulaic manner, and to reflect the applic able  business model. The PRA is equally sceptical of overly large, unwieldy documents as it is of  documents providing too little detail.  Firms should refer to Title 5 of the EBA SREP guidelines when assessing the soundness,  effectiveness and comprehensiven ess of their   ILAAP   document. In particular, the PRA expects a firm  to demonstrate in its ILAAP document that it complies with the expectations outlined in the rest of  this chapter.  Transition from ILAA/ILSA to ILAAP  Most firms that were subject to Chapter   12 of the Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building  Societies and Investment Firms (BIPRU 12) will have produced ILAA or an Individual Liquidity Systems  Assessment (ILSA) document. The following guidance is intended to assist those firms in producing  their   ILAAP document.  Where ILAA or ILSA documents were fit for purpose under BIPRU 12, the PRA expects that they  broadly align with the requirements of an ILAAP document, with some exceptions. A key exception is  that firms will need to conduct an ILAAP on an i ndividual basis and on a consolidated basis where  firms need to comply with the LCR on that basis. The PRA expects firms which will comply with the  5   As defined in the Glossary   section of the PRA Rulebook,   http://media.fshandbook.info/Handbook/Glossaryv7_PRA_20150402.pdf .  6   https://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/935249/EBA - GL - 2014 -  13+%28Guidelines+on+SREP+methodologies+and+processes%29.pdf . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   3  ILAA rules on an individual and on a consolidated basis to only produce one ILAAP document which  should addr ess the requirements at both individual and consolidated level.  There is also a greater focus in the ILAAP on whether firms have adequate stable funding over  the medium to long term as distinct from liquidity risk which focuses on firms’ ability to meet th eir  obligations in the short term. This may need to be reflected in the updated document.  Firms should also consider carefully the appropriateness of the liquid assets held, even where  they are compliant with the Delegated Act, given that the Delegated Act   permits a far wider range of  eligible liquid assets than is eligible under BIPRU 12.  Firms do not need to transition their ILAA document to an ILAAP document immediately. The  PRA would expect ILAAP documents to be updated and   approved   by the management bo dy at the  latest at the firm’s next annual ILAAP review date. The PRA expects that all firms will have a  management body approved ILAAP document, replacing their existing ILAA or ILSA, by the end of  October 2016.  An overview of how the firm applies the Del egated Act in its LCR reporting may also be  appropriate, including, if relevant, how the firm has interpreted the classifications of retail and  operational deposits and the work undertaken annually in response to Delegated Act Article 23.  Overall liquidity   adequacy  A key purpose of the ILAAP is to document and demonstrate overall liquidity adequacy. The  PRA’s approach to liquidity supervision is based on the principle that a firm must have adequate  levels of liquidity resources and a prudent funding profile , and that it comprehensively manages and  controls liquidity and funding risks.  The firm itself is responsible for the effective management of its liquidity and funding risks. This  overarching principle is set out in the overall liquidity adequacy rule (OL AR) in Chapter 2 of the ILAA  rules, and supplemented by Chapter 3 of the ILAA rules on overall strategies, processes and systems.  As part of the ILAAP, a firm should undertake a regular assessment of the adequacy of its  liquidity resources to cover its lia bilities as they fall due in stressed conditions. Central to this process  is an appropriate and clearly articulated risk appetite statement defining the duration and type of  stress or stresses that the firm aims to survive. This risk appetite should be cas caded throughout the  firm in the form of appropriate limits, which may include gap limits or concentration limits around  currency, funding sources, the makeup of liquid asset buffers and the firm’s structural liquidity  position. The PRA also expects firms   to articulate for themselves the amount of risk they are willing  to take across different business lines to achieve their strategic objectives. This risk appetite should  be consistent with the PRA’s duty to advance its general objective of promoting the sa fety and  soundness of firms. 7  For the purposes of the OLAR, liquidity resources are not confined to the amount or value of a  firm’s marketable, or otherwise realisable, assets. Rather, in assessing the adequacy of those  resources, a firm should have regard   to the overall nature of the liquidity resources available to it,  which enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  The LCR is distinct from and does not replace the concept of overall liquidity adequacy. The LCR  is a set of rules applying to all   firms and therefore could fail to capture firm - specific risks. The LCR  also does not capture any of the qualitative   arrangements that the PRA requires a firm to implement  7   See also, ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to bankin g supervision’, June 2014;   available at:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/pra - approach - documents - 2018 . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   4  to ensure compliance with the OLAR. It follows that a firm cannot rely solely on meet ing the LCR  and/or LCR and Pillar 2 guidance   in order to satisfy the OLAR.  Stress testing  Comprehensive, robust stress testing is vital to ensure compliance with the OLAR. The PRA  expects firms to consider in their stress testing the impact of a range of severe but plausible stress  scenarios on their cash flows, liquidity resources, profitabili ty, solvency, asset encumbrance and  survival horizon. Stress scenarios should be selected to reveal the vulnerabilities of the firm’s  funding, including for example, a vulnerability to previously liquid markets becoming unexpectedly  illiquid. Stress testin g scenarios should include a macroeconomic stress. The PRA expects the degree  of conservatism of the scenarios and assumptions to be discussed in the ILAAP document.  The PRA expects , in line with paragraph 3.12,   firms to consider the lowest point of cumula tive  stressed net cashflows both within the 30 - day LCR horizon and within the context of survival days  along the horizon of their own risk appetite. Daily granularity is necessary for this analysis.  In analysing the key risk drivers set out in Chapter 11 o f the ILAA rules, the PRA expects firms to  make appropriate assumptions, both quantitative and qualitative. In particular, firms should include  the following assumptions, discussed in detail in the EBA SREP Guidelines, where appropriate (the  PRA’s presumpt ion is that these are consistent with existing internal liquidity management policies  adopted by firms).  (i)   The run - off of retail funding  This includes an assessment of the likely run - off of different components of the retail book,  taking into account common   features such as guarantee cover, maturity, interest rate  sensitivity, customer type, product type, deposit size, or the channel through which the  deposits were affected.  (ii)   The reduction of secured and unsecured wholesale funding  This includes an assessment   of the type and geographical location of the counterparty, the  level of creditor seniority, the nature of the relationship the firm has with the counterparty, the  type of underlying collateral (if applicable), and the speed of outflow. The risk of shorten ing  tenors should also be assessed.  (iii)   The correlation and concentration of funding  Firms should include an assessment that takes into account instrument type, markets,  currency, liability term structure, counterparty and market access, as   appropriate. A   firm should  also consider the effectiveness of its diversification strategy.  (iv)   Additional contingent off - balance sheet exposures  Firms should include, where appropriate, an assessment of derivative cash flows caused by  maturity, exercise, repricing, margin   calls, a change in the value of posted collateral, collateral  substitution, sleeper collateral, and volatile market conditions. Firms should also consider  funding commitments (facilities, undrawn loans and mortgages, overdrafts and credit cards),  guarantee s and trade finance contracts, as well as facilities to support securitisation vehicles,  including sponsored and third - party structures.  (v)   Funding tenors  Firms should consider vulnerabilities within the term structure due to external, internal or  contractua l events (where the funding provider has call options).  (vi)   The impact of a deterioration in the firm’s credit rating  Firms should consider all types of contractual and behavioural outflows resulting from credit  downgrades of varying magnitude, the types of c ollateral which may be required and the speed  of outflow where appropriate. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   5  (vii)   Foreign exchange convertibility and access to foreign exchange markets  Firms should calculate stressed outflows by individual currency and tenor where appropriate.  This information must support an assessment of how shortfalls can be funded in a stressed  market with impaired access to foreign exchange markets and loss of conve rtibility.  (viii) The ability to transfer liquidity across entities, sectors and countries  Firms should assess the intragroup support assumed available in stress, or the impact of a  failure of a group entity to repay loans in a timely manner, where appropriate.   This assessment  should include considering existing legal, regulatory and operational limitations to potential  transfers of liquidity and unencumbered assets amongst entities, business lines, countries and  currencies.   Firms should detail information on the ir approach for measuring and managing  intragroup liquidity risk and develop their own assessment of the risk of contingent trapped  liquidity, on an individual, sub - consolidated (where applicable) and consolidated level. Firms  should consider the likely im plications of these risks in their stress scenarios and discuss the  degree of conservatism and assumptions applied.  (ix)   Estimates of future balance sheet growth  This should include considering how planned or forecast balance sheets may behave in stress  and wh ether the firm’s risk appetite would be breached.  (x)   The impact on a firm’s reputation or franchise  Firms should include an assessment of implicit liquidity requirements arising from a need to  fulfil expectations to acquire assets, rollover or buy back asset s, to extend or maintain other  forms of liquidity support, or to permit premature termination of retail term or notice liabilities  or derivative exposures for reputational reasons or to protect the franchise, as appropriate.  Firms should also bear in mind   that responses to a liquidity stress cannot include actions that  would significantly damage their franchise.  In addition, the PRA also expects firms to consider the quantitative and qualitative assumptions  for the following risk drivers which are not expli citly addressed in the EBA SREP Guidelines, where  appropriate:  (i)   Marketable asset risk  Firms should include a consideration of how factors affecting their ability to liquidate assets or  monetise them through sale or repurchase agreements may change in stress . This should  include market access, haircuts, timelines, pricing, operational capacity or eligibility.  (ii)   Non - marketable asset risk  The PRA defines non - marketable assets as being those assets which cannot be monetised via  repo or immediate outright sale. The y could be monetised, for example, via the securitisation  market or as covered bonds. Firms should include an assessment of how factors affecting the  liquidity of those assets (eg counterparty stress, whether market access is frequent and  established, earl y amortisation triggers, or financing of warehoused assets) may change under  stress.  (iii)   Internalisation risk  Internalisation risk occurs where firm or customer long positions are funded using the  proceeds from customer short trades. When clients close out the ir short positions and these  arrangements unwind, this may generate substantial liquidity outflows. Internalisation and  netting efficiencies within synthetic prime brokerage also give rise to liquidity risk. Firms should  include an assessment of these risk s.  Consistent with Chapter 11 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects the results of the stress testing  exercise to be presented to the firm’s management body on a regular basis.  Intraday liquidity risk management  A further risk driver where the PRA expects fir ms to make appropriate assumptions is intraday  liquidity risk. This is the risk that a firm is unable to meet its daily settlement obligations, for example, 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   6  as a result of timing mismatches arising from direct and indirect membership of relevant payment or  security settlement systems. Firms should ensure that they have sufficient liquidity at all times to  maintain normal payment activity if:     incoming payments are delayed by several hours or until close to the payment cut off times;     credit lines are withdraw n and/or require full collateralisation; or     large individual clients default on their payments.  The PRA assesses that intraday liquidity risk exposures are material for firms and firms are  therefore expected to demonstrate robust analysis of their intraday   liquidity risk profile both in  business - as - usual and under stress scenarios.  2.24A   All direct participants in payment and securities settlement systems should be able to  calculate their maximum net debit position for each respective system in which they   participate.  Indirect participants that are currently unable to calculate their maximum net debit position are  encouraged to engage with their correspondent   bank(s), with the aim of improving the granularity  and timeliness of payment settlement data to ena ble them to do this . The PRA will be proportionate  in its expectations on the ability of indirect participants to be able to do this for all markets.  Managing the High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) buffer  As part of their ILAAP, and within OLAR, firms shoul d assess their ability to convert their buffers  of liquid assets into cash in a short timeframe. The PRA would expect firms to set a risk appetite and  framework which will govern the management and monitoring of their liquid asset portfolio. This  includes   having appropriate internal limits and controls to ensure that the ability to monetise HQLAs  in stress is not limited in any way.  Some of the risk drivers identified above inform the assessment of firms’ ability to monetise  their buffers. These include ‘ma rketable asset risk’, ‘foreign exchange convertibility and access to  foreign exchange markets’ and ‘the ability to transfer liquidity across entities, sectors and countries’.  Related to consideration of these risk drivers, the operational requirements in D elegated Act Article 8  also establish key principles which firms should observe.  This section highlights certain factors which the PRA regards as particularly important if firms  are to demonstrate their ability to monetise their buffers on an appropriate t imescale.  Testing the ability to monetise  Delegated Act Article 8(4) requires firms to regularly monetise a sufficiently representative  sample of their holdings of HQLA (with the exception of certain asset classes). The PRA’s expectations  of firms’ complia nce with this requirement will be proportionate, taking into account the firm’s  business model.  Firms are also reminded of the obligation in of Delegated Act Article 8(2) to have ready access  to their holdings of HQLAs and to ensure that there are no legal   or operational restrictions to  monetising HQLAs at any time during the   30 calendar   day stress period. In particular, while  accounting classifications remain decisions for firms, where firms hold HQLAs in the held - to - maturity  portfolio, they should be able to demonstrate that this does not create barriers to their ability to  monetise the se assets.  Cashflow mismatch risk (CFMR) monetisation assumptions  2.29A   From the date   firms first report   PRA110, the PRA expects f irms to assess, at least annually in  their ILAAP, the speed with which they expect to be able to monetise different types of   non - cash  HQLA, on a daily basis, through repo markets and outright sales in times of stress. Firms should take 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   7  into account relevant factors such as market depth, number of regular counterparties, the firm’s  individual turnover and incremental market acces s in stress, the need to rollover short - term repo  transactions and settlement times etc. Firms should also consider the extent to which their ability to  monetise HQLA through outright sale could be adversely affected by the accounting classification, in  p articular where sale of the asset would crystallise a loss that arises because of the difference  between the fair value at the point of sale and the carry value in the firm’s accounts. Firms should  provide evidence of the data used for their assessments in   their ILAAPs. Firms should not include  public liquidity insurance as a non - cash HQLA monetisation channel in this assessment. This enables  the PRA to monitor firms’ resilience to different stresses using self - insurance alone. The monetisation  profile will   not be included in the granular LCR stress scenario for the purposes of assessing  compliance with the guidance outlined in paragraph 3.12.  2.29B   Firms should use their assessments to apply daily monetisation limits to their stock of  different types of no n - cash HQLA available at the reporting date, in the CFMR framework. The  monetisation profiles should be computed on a consolidated currency level as well as in each  significant currency. Firms will report the resulting monetisation profiles in PRA110 . 8  Div ersification of assets  Delegated Act Article 8(1) requires firms to have in place appropriate internal limits and  controls to ensure that they appropriately diversify their HQLA buffer. This should be sufficient to  demonstrate that their ability to monetis e HQLAs in a short timeframe without significant loss of  value is not compromised by exposure to a common risk factor. In addition, the PRA expects larger  firms to take into account the absolute size of their HQLA holdings and to be able to monetise these  without compromising on either speed of disposal or price. They should also consider the impact of  their actions on the wider market and on financial stability.  Firms should have due regard to their own business model when determining the appropriate  level   of diversification in their buffer. In particular, they should consider the risk that a particular  asset holding becomes illiquid just when the firm itself needs to draw down its buffer, for example,  because both the firm and the asset are exposed to a co mmon risk factor. Conversely, they should  also consider whether their choice of assets is appropriate given their ability to manage properly the  risk in those assets, and to access the relevant repo or sale market.  In accordance with Delegated Act Article   8(1) the PRA may set requirements on a firm to  enforce increased diversification of the HQLA buffer, or conversely to restrict holdings of particular  asset classes. This may include requirements on a firm’s liquidity management practices or  investment poli cies. Under CRD Article 103, the PRA may also restrict holdings of particular asset  classes if it observes that this exposes several firms to a common set of risk factors.  Currency mismatch (see also risk driver vii)  Currency conversion is an additional st ep between monetising HQLA and using HQLA to meet  specific outflows. Therefore, firms should have appropriate policies and controls to manage the risk  that the currency denomination of assets is an obstacle to using their assets when meeting outflows  in a   specific currency in stress.  The PRA reminds firms that Delegated Act Article 8(6) gives the PRA, as the competent  authority, the option to restrict currency mismatches. It can do so by setting limits on the proportion  of currency - specific net stressed out flows that can be met by holding HQLAs not denominated in that  currency. The PRA may apply this discretion through a range of firm - specific measures, including  setting the LCR by currency on significant currencies (therefore including the reporting currenc y).  Transferability of funds (see also risk driver viii)  8   PRA110 is available on the Regulatory reporting   –   banking sector section of the Bank of England’s website:  www.bankofengland.c o.uk/prudential - regulation/regulatory - reporting/regulatory - reporting - banking - sector . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   8  With regard to the risk that, in severely stressed circumstances, liquidity might not be freely  transferable between and within group entities, across national borders, as well as between  currencies,   the PRA expects firms to demonstrate that the assumptions they make are realistic.  Further to PRA Rulebook Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Rule 8, firms should include  detailed information, at all relevant levels of application of liquidity require ments, in their ILAAPs, on:  (a) The distribution of outflows, inflows and liquid assets by location, with a breakdown by all  significant currencies, as determined under the CRR. 1  (b) The distinction between intragroup and external inflows;  (c) Where liq uid assets are not aligned to net outflows by currency or by location, a consideration of  how liquid assets located elsewhere in the group may be immediately available, with particular  emphasis on:  (i) the   ease with which liquid assets can be moved across legal entities and jurisdictions  (including within the same legal entity, for example between a firm’s overseas branch and a  firm’s head office);  (ii) the ease with which liquid assets can be moved across   different time zones;  (iii) the ease with which liquid assets can be transferred from one currency into another  (including the operational ease of monetisation);  (iv) the potential consequences of moving liquid assets across different legal entities and  jurisdictions; and  (v) the entities, decision - making bodies and processes involved in the control of the  movement of these liquid assets, and the potential impact on the immediate availability of  those liquid assets.  (d) Where outflows at an individual   (or sub - group) level are significantly covered by intragroup  inflows, a consideration of the impact of stress on intragroup inflows.  2.35AA Under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR), 2   firms are required to allocate a Prescribed  Responsibility (PR) for manag ing the allocation and maintenance of the firm’s capital, funding and  liquidity to an individual performing a Senior Management Function (SMF). 3   The PRA expects:     the SMF allocated this PR to ensure that the firm conducts the assessment specified in  parag raph 2.35, and to document it in the firm’s ILAAP submissions; and     firms to ensure this expectation is explicitly reflected in the relevant SMF’s Statement of  Responsibilities.  Eligibility of reserves held at the Bank of England  2.35A   Delegated Act Ar ticle 10(1)(b)(iii) requires the conditions for withdrawal of central bank  reserves to be specified in an agreement between the relevant competent authority and the central  bank in order for such reserves to be eligible as Level 1 HQLA. An agreement betwee n the PRA, as  competent authority, and the Bank of England, acting in its capacity as the central bank, states that:  ‘All reserves held in firms’ primary reserve accounts, and in their reserve collateralisation accounts  that are in excess of the minima re quired to pre - fund deferred net settlement payment systems, are  withdrawable in times of stress. This is without prejudice to the Bank of England’s ability to set a 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   9  minimum balance on a reserve account. Reserves subject to a minimum balance would not be  wi thdrawable up to the amount of the minimum balance. In the event that the Bank of England set  a minimum balance it would, other than in exceptional circumstances (for example in response to a  Court order), notify the account holder.’  Eligibility of shares  2.35B   For the purposes of Delegated Act Article 12(1)(c)(i), the PRA has identified the Financial  Times Stock Exchange 100 (FTSE 100) as a major stock index for the United Kingdom.  Eligibility of non - interest bearing assets, including sukuk 9  Delegated Ac t Article 12(1)(f) allows firms to include in their liquidity buffer non - interest  bearing assets which do not otherwise meet the minimum rating criteria, provided these assets meet  other specified criteria and if these firms are unable for reasons of relig ious observance to hold  interest - bearing assets, in accordance with their statutes of incorporation. The PRA expects that this  provision will apply only to firms whose entire operations are structured and conducted in  accordance with Islamic commercial jur isprudence and its investment principles. However, firms  should satisfy themselves that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers.  These firms may also benefit from the derogation available under of Delegated Act Article 12(3)  which all ows competent authorities to disapply two specific criteria that determine the eligibility of  corporate debt securities for inclusion in a firm’s Level 2B HQLA buffer: these two criteria are the  minimum issue size and maximum time to maturity. The PRA expe cts that a number of sukuk will  meet the conditions that allow the PRA to exercise this discretion. Firms that consider they would be  eligible to benefit from these derogations should apply to the PRA for a permission.  Delegated Act Article 7(6) requires f irms to assess whether a trading venue provides for an  active and sizeable market, in order to confirm that assets that are not listed on recognised  exchanges are tradable via outright sale. In particular, firms are required to take into account the  minimu m criteria specified in Delegated Act Article 7(6)(a) and (b) when making this assessment. The  PRA acknowledges that firms will need to exercise judgement in deciding whether these criteria are  met in relation to specific assets, including sukuk. It is the   responsibility of firms to satisfy themselves  that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers. Firms should contact their PRA  supervisor if, after completing their assessment, they are still unsure whether their assets meet the  requirem ent stated in the Delegated Act.  When considering the option of restricting currency mismatches under Delegated Act Article 8,  the PRA will take into account all relevant considerations: this will include considerations relevant to  firms that, for reasons   of religious observance, are unable to hold interest - bearing assets.  Liquidity contingency plan  Chapter 12 of the ILAA rules sets out the requirements a firm needs to meet in relation to its  liquidity contingency plan. In addition, the PRA requires firms to prepare a recovery plan under the  Recovery Plans part of the PRA Rulebook. To the extent that   the broader recovery plan addresses the  requirements for liquidity contingency plans, firms do not have to develop a separate liquidity  contingency plan. However, regardless of whether this is addressed in the liquidity contingency plan,  or in the broader   recovery plan, firms’ arrangements must be cross - referenced, where appropriate,  in the ILAAP document. These arrangements should also be informed by the results of firms’ liquidity  stress testing. The PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its   review of firms’ liquidity  management.  9   Certificates of equal value representing an undivided interest in the ownership of specified assets or investments acquired o r to be  acquired   and that comply with Islamic commercial jurisprudence and its investment principles, but excluding shares. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   10  Transfer pricing  As part of their compliance with Chapter 6 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects firms to ensure  that liquidity and funding costs, benefits and risks are fully incorporated into firms’ product pricing,  performance measurement and incentives, and new product a nd transaction approval processes. All  significant business lines should be included, whether on or off - balance sheet. Both stressed and  business - as - usual costs should be assessed. The process should be transparent and understood by  business line managemen t, and regularly reviewed to ensure it remains appropriately calibrated. The  PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its review of firms’ liquidity management.  The Liquidity   Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (L - SREP)  Consistent with the   process set out in the EBA SREP Guidelines and building on previous liquidity  reviews and ongoing supervisory activities, the PRA will carry out an L - SREP of the firm in a manner  and at a frequency which is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexit y of a firm’s activities.  This approach is consistent with the PRA’s secondary competition objective.  In carrying out the L - SREP, the PRA will as a minimum undertake the following:     review the arrangements, strategies, and processes implemented by a firm to   comply with  the liquidity standards laid down in the ILAA rules, Part Six (Liquidity) of the CRR and the  Delegated Act. This includes reviewing firms’ Common Reporting (COREP) liquidity returns.     evaluate the liquidity and funding risks to which the firm i s or might be exposed;     assess the risks that the firm poses to the financial system;     evaluate the further liquidity and funding risks revealed by stress testing; and     evaluate whether the level and composition of the firm’s liquidity resources are adequate   to  meet the firm’s liquidity needs over different time horizons.  Based on this assessment, the PRA will:     determine specific quantitative ILG (individual liquidity guidance);     determine specific qualitative ILG; and     determine firms’ overall liquidity risk sc oring.  The following paragraphs detail how the PRA will carry out L - SREPs, and how it will set ILG.  L - SREP  The PRA will assess whether a firm, in its ILAAP document, has adequately identified its liquidity  needs across appropriate time horizons in severe b ut plausible stresses for all relevant risk drivers  and whether its liquidity resources are adequate to meet those needs. In addition, the L - SREP will  also review the governance arrangements of the firm, its risk management culture, and the ability of  memb ers of the management body to perform their duties. The degree of involvement of the  management body will be taken into account, as will the appropriateness of the internal processes  and systems underlying the ILAAP. Examples of review topics might cover t he firm’s risk appetite,  liquidity contingency plans and non - stressed funding plans, collateral management, the ability to  monetise HQLAs and wider liquidity in a timely fashion, intraday arrangements, market access and  asset encumbrance. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   11  The PRA may need   to request further information and meet with the management body and  other representatives of a firm   in order to evaluate fully the comprehensiveness of the ILAAP and the  adequacy of the governance arrangements around it. The management body should be able   to  demonstrate an understanding of the ILAAP consistent with its taking responsibility for   the ILAAP.  And the management of the firm at appropriate levels should be prepared to discuss and defend all  aspects of the ILAAP, covering both quantitative and qu alitative components.   Additionally, the PRA  will consider the business model of the firm and the advocated rationale for the model, as well as the  firm’s expectations regarding the future market and economic environment and how they might  affect its liquid ity position and funding profile.  The PRA will review if a firm accurately and consistently complies with the obligations of the  Delegated Act, including whether a firm is appropriately applying the outflow rates prescribed in the  Delegated Act.  On the bas is of the L - SREP, the PRA will determine whether the arrangements, strategies,  processes and mechanisms implemented by a firm and the liquidity it holds provide sound  management and adequate coverage of its risks. This assessment is reflected in the PRA’s   ILG.  Setting ILG  Following the L - SREP, the PRA will give ILG. Compliance with ILG does not relieve firms of their  responsibility to comply with OLAR.  A key element of the PRA’s ILG is to advise a firm of the amount and quality of HQLAs which it  considers a re appropriate, having regard to the liquidity risk profile of the firm. Quantitative  guidance will extend beyond the liquidity buffer the firm is required to maintain under the LCR and  will cover liquidity risks to which the firm is exposed to but which a re not captured by the LCR (‘Pillar  2’ quantitative requirements). Qualitative guidance will include actions required to mitigate those  risks identified as inconsistent with the PRA’s objectives. Where appropriate, the PRA may also set  specific guidance on   pre - positioning collateral at the Bank of England.  Typically, ILG given to firms covers whether the:     quantity of   HQLAs held is sufficient;     quality and composition of HQLAs held are appropriate;     operational arrangements to manage HQLA are appropriate;     firm’s funding profile is appropriate; and     firm should undertake   any further qualitative arrangements to mitigate its liquidity risk.  Pillar 2 guidance  The   PRA   expects 10   that firms should survive throughout the granular LCR stress scenario   (30  day horizon)   of the CFMR framework   on a consolidated currency basis.   This guidance should be read  as being part of a firm’s ILG. This does not preclude the use of other stress scenarios or tools to set  guidance, for example, in temporary and targeted ways based on test s of firms’ resilience to specific,  foreseeable, future stress events.  Mismatches under the CFMR scenarios are taken into account when assessing compliance with  the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule .  10   This guidance will apply from a date, not before 1 January 2020, of which at least two months’ notice will be provided on the   PRA  website. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   12  Pillar 2 asset eligibility  The type of HQLAs held to mee t interim Pillar 2 add - ons should be no wider than defined in the  Delegated Act and follow the same composition by asset level as set out in the Delegated Act. The  quality of HQLAs should be appropriate to mitigate firm - specific risks 11   and be consistent wi th the  OLAR.  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  Drawing down liquid asset buffers  Firms may draw down their liquid asset buffers as required in times of stress, including where  this involves falling below the level of their quantitative ILG. 12   When this happens,   the PRA will be  content for firms to rebuild their buffers over a reasonable period of time. The PRA does not expect  firms to hold higher liquid asset buffers than the amount advised in their ILG or as required to meet  their assessment of overall liquidit y adequacy, as appropriate. Specifically, there is no expectation on  firms to hold excess liquid assets so as to avoid falling below this level in the event of a potential  stress.  A firm is expected to notify the PRA immediately if it falls, or is expected   to fall, below the level  of its quantitative ILG. It should also expect to discuss with its   supervisors its plan for restoring  compliance with the guidance, including actions already documented in the firm’s liquidity  contingency plan or broader recovery   plan.  In exercising its judgement on what constitutes a reasonable time to rebuild buffers drawn down  in stress, the PRA will take into account how far the firm has run down its liquidity buffer and the  expected duration of a stress. It will also consider   the drivers of the firm’s shortfall, including in the  context of current and forecast macroeconomic and financial conditions. The PRA will also take into  account the amount of pre - positioned collateral held at the Bank of England, or the amount available  f or drawing at other central banks to which the firm has access.  The PRA continues to expect firms to have robust levels of pre - positioning. However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access   market  funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position collateral assets at the Bank of  England, as part of a complete suite of contingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  Collateral placed   at the Bank of England  The Bank of England announced a number of changes to its liquidity insurance facilities in  October 2013. 13   These changes were designed to increase the availability and flexibility of liquidity  insurance, by providing liquidity at lon ger maturities, against a wider range of collateral, at a lower  cost and with greater predictability of access. The certainty with which a firm can expect to be able  to access the Bank of England’s facilities has been reinforced through a presumption that   all firms  11   For   example, where the PRA advises a firm of an amount of HQLAs which the PRA considers appropriate to mitigate intraday liquidit y  risk, the PRA expects the firm to be able to liquidate these HQLAs on an intraday basis, as required.  12   If a firm falls below   the level of HQLAs indicated in its ILG and the minimum LCR requirement where this is lower, that does not create  a presumption that it is not meeting Threshold Conditions.  13   ‘Liquidity Insurance at the Bank of England: developments in the Sterling Moneta ry Framework’, October 2013;  www.bankofengland.co.uk/markets/Documents/money/publications/liquidityinsurance.pdf . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   13  that meet Threshold Conditions may sign up for the Sterling Monetary Framework and have full  access to use the Bank of England’s facilities.  The terms of the Bank of England’s liquidity insurance facilities are set to ensure counterparties  have t he incentive to manage their liquidity primarily through private markets in normal times.  Consistent with this, for limited liquidity shocks, it is appropriate for firms to draw initially on their  holdings of HQLAs. For larger or more severe liquidity outf lows, the Bank of England expects firms to  consider using the Discount Window Facility or other liquidity insurance facilities alongside, rather  than after, using a significant proportion of their liquidity buffer. As noted in the PRA’s approach  document, 14   the PRA expects firms to have credible options in their liquidity contingency plan for  restoring their HQLAs following firm - specific or market - wide stress.  A firm can count assets pre - positioned at the Bank of England to meet the PRA’s quantitative  liquid ity guidance, if these assets are eligible for inclusion in the HQLA buffer under the Delegated  Act. If pre - positioned assets are not eligible for inclusion in the HQLA buffer, they cannot be used to  meet the PRA’s quantitative liquidity guidance. However   the PRA will consider the firm’s pre -  positioning position as part of its assessment of the effectiveness of the firm’s liquidity contingency  plans and will take appropriate mitigating action where it is inadequate. 15  The PRA continues to expect firms to hav e robust levels of pre - positioning. However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access market  funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position collateral assets at the Bank of  England,   as part of a complete suite of contingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  Reporting  CRD Article 104(1)(j) enables the PRA to impose additional or more frequent reporting of  liquidity positions. CRR A rticle 414 requires institutions which do not meet the LCR to report the LCR,  stable funding and additional liquidity monitoring metric returns, as appropriate, daily by the end of  each business day unless the competent authority authorises a lower frequen cy and a longer delay.  The PRA considers that for firms with a balance sheet total above £5 billion it is appropriate to  submit the following returns on a daily basis during times of stress in accordance with of CRR Article  414:     Liquidity Coverage   templates (C 72.00 – C 76.00); and     Rollover of funding (C 70.00).  6.2A   The PRA considers that during times of stress , for example in accordance with Article 5 of  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2015/61 , it is appropriate ,   for firms with:     total   assets   above €30 billion to submit the PRA110 on a daily basis; and     total assets below €30 billion to submit the PRA110 on a weekly basis.  Therefore, the PRA expects those firms to have systems and processes in place that enable them  to report these returns on   a daily basis. The PRA recognises that firms may require time to develop  systems and processes and will be proportionate in its expectations.  14   See footnote (1) on page 4.  15   Note that ‘holding collateral immediately available for central bank funding’ is a specific operational step which firms must   take to  ensure that their plans can be implemented immediately (see ILAA rule, 12.3 and Article 86(11) of the CRD. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   14  The PRA will be proportionate in its approach to additional or more frequent reporting from a  firm during a stress .  In addition to the above, the PRA expects all firms to have the capability to produce key data to  monitor liquidity buffers, contractual and stress - tested cashflows, wholesale counterparties and  Financial Services Compensation Scheme balances in the eve nt of a crisis.  Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance  In line with legal requirements, firms report all eligible HQLA within their publically disclosed  liquidity coverage ratios (LCRs). This includes HQLA held for Pillar 1 requirements, Pillar   2 guidance,  and an y eligible ‘surplus’ above that. However, firms should be clear to investors that the HQLA they  report in their LCRs is to cover both Pillar   1 and Pillar 2 risks .  The PRA expects firms not to disclose publically their total ILG. Disclosure of ILG may lead   to an  expectation, from both firms and markets, that firms should hold a further buffer of liquid assets,  above their level of ILG. The PRA has no such expectation, as outlined in paragraph 4.1. Therefore,  the PRA expects that firms will not provide any fu rther details on their Pillar   2 guidance unless  disclosure is required by law, and that firms will notify the PRA in advance of any proposed disclosure  announcement . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   15  Appendices  1   Suggested structure and content of ILAAP document  2   Glossary of   abbreviations  Annex   Changes to SS24/15 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   16  Appendix   1  Suggested structure and content of ILAAP document  Heading   Detail  Overview   This section is for introductory text describing the business model, the reach and systemic  presence of the firm. Internal and external changes since the last liquidity review should  be described. Changes in the scope of the document since the last review   by the  management body should be included.  Firms should justify the comprehensiveness and proportionality of their process.  (Proportionality may also be addressed under the relevant headings below where this fits  better).  Summary  conclusions  Firms should   provide the summarised conclusions of their overall liquidity adequacy  review, stating how and whether they meet the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule (Internal  Liquidity Adequacy Assessment 2.1) and with regard to the additional guidance provided in  supervi sory statement SS24/15, ‘The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding  risks’, under ‘Overall liquidity adequacy’.   Any shortcomings and remedial plans should be  discussed.  The firm should present its assessment of any additional liquidity it believes it should hold  on account of risks not captured in Pillar 1.  LCR reporting  HQLA   In this section, firms should discuss their approach to ensure compliance with the  Delegated Ac t overall. The following areas, where relevant, should receive particular  focus: the approach to implementation of Article 7, the operational requirements detailed  in Article 8, the work undertaken in response to Article 23, the approach to classification  of retail deposits specified in Articles 24 and 25 and classification of operational deposits  specified in Article 27.  Outflows  Inflows  Liquidity Risk Assessment  Evaluation of  liquidity   needs in the  short and   medium  term  In this section, firms   should describe their liquidity profile at appropriate time horizons out  to 12 months, the sources and uses on gross and net basis, and their activities undertaken  to cover such liquidity needs in both BAU and stress. The firm should also   describe any  ways   in which the LCR metric does not capture its liquidity risks within 30 days and how  that risk will be managed. For   further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines  2014/13, ‘Evaluation of liquidity needs in the short and medium term’, within   Title   8.  Evaluation of  intraday   risk  In this section, firms should describe how intraday risk is created within their business,  whether part of the payments system or not,   their appetite for and approach to managing  intraday liquidity risk of both cash and   securities accounts and in both business as usual  and stress conditions. They should include the approach to stress testing and conclusions.  For further guidance, firms should refer to   the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of  intraday liquidity risk’ with in Title 8, as well as additional material contained within  SS24/15.  Evaluation of  liquidity   buffer and  counterbalancing  capacity  In this section, firms should describe the procedures for calculating, controlling and  monitoring the liquid assets buffer an d   counterbalancing capacity, and their effectiveness  in different scenarios which should include those affecting the liquidity of the   assets and  counterbalancing capacity. The firm's use of pre - positioning at the Bank of England or any  other central bank s hould be   included. For further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA  Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of liquidity buffer and counterbalancing   capacity’ within  Title 8, as well as additional material contained within SS24/15, especially under  ‘Managing the   HQLA buffer’ and   ‘Role of collateral pre - positioned for use in the Bank of  England's liquidity insurance facilities’.  Inherent funding risk assessment 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   17  Heading   Detail  Evaluation of risks to  stability of the  funding profile  In this section, firms should describe the   funding risk strategy and appetite, and the  profile, both the sources and uses on a gross and   net basis. For further guidance, firms  should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of the firm's funding profile’,  within   Title 8.  Evaluation of   risks to  stability of the  funding   p rofile  In this section, firms should analyse the stability of the liabilities within the funding profile  and the circumstances in which they could   become unstable. This could include market  shifts including changes in co llateral values, excessive maturity mismatch, inappropriate  levels of asset encumbrance, concentrations (including single or connected counterparties,  or currencies). For further guidance, firms   should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13  ‘Evaluation of the   risks to the stability of the funding profile’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of market  access  In this section, firms should analyse market access and current or future threats to this  access, including the impact of any short - term liquidity stresses or neg ative news. For  further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of actual  market access’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of  expected   change in  funding risks   based  on firms ’   f unding  plan.  Refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13   Evaluation of expected change in funding risks based on  the firm's funding plan.  Risk management assessment (both liquidity and funding)  Assess risk strategy  and risk appetite  In this section, firms should describe the risk appetite and strategy, how they were  devised, approved, monitored and reported, and how they are communicated throughout  the firm. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Liquidit y risk  strategy and liquidity risk tolerance’ within Title 8.  Organisational  framework, policies  and procedures  In this section, firms should describe the governance and management arrangements  around the ILAAP including the involvement of the governing   body. They should describe  also the risk framework overall and as it pertains to liquidity and funding risks, the  technical and staff resources. The approach to maintaining market access should be  included. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA   Guidelines 2014/13,  ‘Organisational framework, policies and procedures’, within Title 8. SS24/15 also provides  guidance on the involvement of the management body and proportionality of the  framework.  Risk identification,  measurement,  management,  monitorin g and  reporting  In this section, firms should describe the framework and IT systems for identifying,  measuring, managing and monitoring and both internal and external reporting of liquidity  and funding risks, including intraday risk. The assumptions and m ethodologies adopted  should be described. Key indicators should be evidenced and the internal information  flows described. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Risk  identification, measurement, management, monitoring and re porting’ within Title 8.  SS24/15 provides further guidance on management involvement and proportionality of  the ILAAP process.  Firm’s liquidity  specific stress testing  In this section, firms should analyse the internal stress testing   framework, including the  process and governance of and challenge to scenario design, derivation of assumptions  and design of sensitivity analysis, and the process of review and challenge and relevance  to the risk appetite. The process by which the stress   results are produced, and  incorporated into the risk framework and strategic planning, and the liquidity recovery  process should be scrutinised. The results and conclusions must be analysed, with  breakdown by each relevant risk driver. For further guida nce, firms should refer to EBA  Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Firm’s liquidity specific stress testing,’ within Title 8, as well as  SS24/15, under the heading ‘Stress testing’, where a more detailed description of the risk  drivers can be found. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   18  Heading   Detail  Liquidity risk inter nal  control framework  In this section, firms should describe their internal limit and control framework, including  the limits and controls around liquid asset buffers, and the appropriateness of the limit  structure to the risk appetite. The transfer prici ng framework should also be described  here, for example how the methodology was developed, the process controlled,  monitored and reviewed, and the results cascaded throughout the firm to drive  behaviours and support performance measurement and business inc entives. For further  guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Liquidity risk internal control  framework’, within Title 8. Some additional guidance can be found in SS24/15 under the  heading ‘Transfer pricing system’.  Liquidity contingency  plans  In this section, firms should detail the policies, procedures and action plans for responding  to severe disruptions in the firm's ability to fund itself. The plan should be that which is  contained within their Recovery and Resolution Plan, and it sh ould be either cross  referenced or included within the ILAAP document. Guidance is provided in Supervisory  Statement 18/13, ‘Recovery Planning’. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA  Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Liquidity contingency plans’, within Tit le 8, and in SS24/15, ‘Liquidity  contingency plan’.  Funding plans   Firms should provide the full funding plan to demonstrate how it will support the  projected business activities in both business as usual and stress, implementing any  required improvements   in the funding profile and evidencing that the risk appetite and  key metrics will not be breached by the planned changes. Risks to the plan should be  discussed. Where a funding strategy is new, implementation procedures should be  detailed. For further gui dance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Funding  plans’, within Title 8. 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Appendix 2  Glossary of   Abbreviations  BIPRU 12   Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building   Societies and Investment Firms   —   Chapter  12,   Liquidity Standards  CRR   Capital Requirements Regulation  CRD IV   Capital Requirements Directive IV  EBA   European Banking Authority  HQLA   High   Quality Liquid Assets  ILAA   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment  ILAAP   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   Process  ILG   Individual Liquidity Guidance  ILSA   Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment  L - SREP   Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation   Process  LCR   Liquidity Coverage Requirement  OLAR   Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule  SREP   Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   20  Annex: Changes to SS24/15  June 2019  Following publication of Policy Statement   13 /19 , 16   this SS was updated   to amend the   following  paragraphs. The updated SS will   take effect from   Monday 1 July 2019 :     p aragraph 3.12   has been amended   to introduce a short delay to the application of the  guidance to survive the granular LCR stress scenario, in order to ensure the PRA110  reporting template reflects information necessary to calculate relevant monitoring metrics  and clarify that the PRA will give firms at least 2 months’ notice, through an update to its  website, of the date of its application, which will not be before 1 Janu ary   2020;     p aragraph 6.2   has been updated   to remove potential ambiguity as to whether a firm should  wait for the PRA to notify it of the need to increase its PRA110 reporting frequency in  stress;   and     paragraph 6.4   clarifies   that the PRA will be proportionat e in its approach to additional or  more frequent reporting from a firm during a stress .  The SS has also been updated to include improvements to assist the reader, eg removing blank  pages, making hyperlinks visible and having continuous footnote numbers.  Ap ril 2018  Following publication of Policy Statement 9/18 ‘Groups Policy and Double Leverage’ 1 , this SS was  updated to include additional expectations in relation to how firms fulfil their obligations under the  ILAA part of the Rulebook with regards to the a ssessment of group risk (paragraph 2.35):     2.35 a) information on the distribution of outflows, inflows and liquid assets (broken down  by currencies);     2.35 b) the distinction between intragroup and external inflows;     2.35 c) availability of liquid assets   where they are not aligned to net outflows by currency or  by location; and     2.35 d) the impact of stress on intragroup flows, where outflows are significantly covered  by intragroup inflows.  February 2018  Following publication of Policy Statement   2 /18, 17   this SS was updated to include the following  paragraphs:     2.24A Calculation of maximum net debit position for direct and indirect participants in  payments and securities settlements systems.     2.29A Assessment of speed of monetisation of HQLAs.  16   ‘Pillar 2 li quidity: Updates to the framework’:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/pillar - 2 -  liquidity - updates - to - the - framework .  17   PS2/18 ‘Pillar 2 liquidity’, available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/pillar - 2 - liqu idity . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding risks   June 2019   21     2.29B Applica tion of monetisation limits in the CFMR framework.     3.12 Liquidity guidance on the granular LCR stress scenario.     3.13 Mismatches under the CFMR scenarios are taken into account when assessing  compliance with the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule     7.1 and 7.2   Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance  This   SS was updated to amend   the paragraphs 2.17, 2.19, 2.20 (viii), 6.2 and 6.3.  This SS was updated to remove the paragraphs 3.15, 3.16 and 3.17.  December 2016  This SS was updated by PS 35/ 16 18   to include the following parag raphs:     2.35A Eligibility of reserves held at the Bank of England: To make readers aware of the  agreement between the PRA, as competent authority, and the Bank of England, acting in its  capacity as the central bank, for the withdrawal of central bank reserv es to be eligible as  Level 1 HQLA under Delegated Act Article 10(1)(b)(iii).     2.35B Eligibility of shares: To identify the FTSE100 as a major stock index for the United  Kingdom   f or the purposes of Dele gated Act Article 12(1)(c)(i).  18   PS35/16 ‘Responses to CP26/16’, available at:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2016/responses - to - cp - 2 6 - 2016 . 2 March 2020: This SS has been updated, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss


