---
title: "SS2415/ – Ss2415 January 2026"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2026/ss2415-january-2026.pdf"
---

# SS2415/ – Ss2415 January 2026

Supervisory Statement |   SS24/15  The PRA’s approach to  supervising liquidity and funding  risks  January 2026   (Updating   December 2023 ) This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Supervisory Statement   |   SS24/15  The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks  January 2026   (Updating   December   202 3 )  © Bank of England   202 6  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

C ontents  Introduction   1  The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process   2  The Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (L - SREP)   15  Drawing down liquid asset buffers   17  Collateral placed at the Bank of England   18  Reporting   19  Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance   19  Appendix 1:   Suggested structure and content of ILAAP document   20  Appendix 2: Suggested structure and content of an ILAAP document for SDDTs   23  Appendix 3: Glossary of Abbreviations   32 This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Introduction  This supervisory statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) approach to  supervising liquidity and funding risks. It is ad dressed to firms to which the Capital Requirements  Directive (CRD) 1   applies.  The statement should be read alongside the ‘Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment’ part of  the PRA Rulebook (ILAA rules), the ‘Liquidity Coverage Requirement   —   UK Designated Investment  Firms’ part of the PRA Rulebook; the PRA’s approach to banking supervi sion; 2   Part Six (Liquidity) of  the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) and the European Commission Delegated Act with  regards to the liquidity coverage requirement (LCR) for credit institutions (‘Delegated Act’). 3   The  PRA’s approach is informed by the European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) guidelines for common  procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP). 4   The PRA  expects firms to have regard to the detail contained in Titles 8 and 9 of the EBA SREP Guidelines to  understand the PRA’s expectations of them in respect of liquidity and funding risk management and  control.  The Delegated Act specifies in detail the LCR provided for in CRR Article 412 and is directly  applicable in the United Kingdom. It took effect from 1 October 2015. The Delegated Act only applies  to credit institutions. PRA - designated investment firms must   comply with the obligations laid down  in the Delegated Act as they apply to credit institutions, by   virtue of rule 2.1 of the ‘LCR   —   UK  designated   investment firms’ Part of the PRA Rulebook. They should read references in this  statement to the Delegated Ac t accordingly.  The PRA is required under CRD   to apply the Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process  (L - SREP) and any supervisory measures in accordance with the level of application of the  re quirements set out in the CRD   framework. Therefore, the ILAA rules, including the requirement to  carry out an Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), apply on an individual basis  and on a consolidated basis where firms must comply with Part Six (Liquidity) of the CRR o n a  consolidated basis. This enables the   PRA to apply the L - SREP and any supervisory measures at both  individual and consolidated level, where appropriate.  This statement is structured as follows:  •   Section 2: The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.  •   Section 3: The Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process.  •   Section 4: Drawing down Liquid Asset Buffers.  •   Section 5: Collateral placed at the Bank of England.  •   Section 6: Reporting.  In this statement,   reference to provisions of CRR or associated delegated act   are references: (i)  where   any   provision has not been revoked, to that provision in the CRR as it has effect in domestic  1   CRD implements the international regulatory framework for banks know as Basel 3 in Europe.  2   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/supervision .  3   European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 of 10 October 2014 to supplement Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the  European Parliament and the Council with regard to liquidity coverage requirement for Credit Institutions.  4   European Banking Authority: ‘Guidelines for common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation  process (SREP)’, available at   www.eba.europa.eu/regulation - and - policy/supervisory - review - and - evaluation - srep - and - pillar -  2/guidelines - for - common - procedures - and - methodologies - for - the - supervisory - review - and - evaluation - process - srep - . This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

law; and (ii) where the provision has been revoked, to the corresponding provision in PRA rules.  References to CRD should be interpreted as references to the domestic law that implements that  framework, taking into account published PRA materials 5   regarding interpretation of legacy  references to EU legislation.  The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process  The ILAA rules require firms to identify, measure, manage and monitor liquidity and funding  risks across different time horizons and stress scenarios, consistent with the risk appetite established  by the firm’s management body. A firm must carry out an ILA AP in accordance with the ILAA rules,  and the ILAAP should be proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s activities as  set out in Chapter 13 of the ILAA rules.  An ILAAP document sets out a firm’s approach to liquidity and funding.   Small Domestic Deposit  Takers (SDDTs) and SDDT consolidation entities 6   that are not new and growing banks 7   should update  their ILAAP documents at least every two years. All other firms   should update   their I L AAP documents  annually . A firm should update its I L AAP document   more frequently   than the expected frequency   if  changes in the business, strategy, nature or scale of its activities or operational environment suggest  that the current level of liquid resources or the firm’s funding profile is no longer adequate.   To  ensure that SDDT resilience is maintained, the PRA may request an update d ILAAP   from an SDDT if  necessary. For example, if an SDDT’s ILAAP is of poor quality, supervisors could   ask the SDDT to  remediate issues in the next year, and evidence this through submission of an updated ILAAP  document.  ILAAP governance  The PRA expects the ILAAP to be the responsibility of a firm’s management body. 8   The ILAAP  document must be approved by the management body and be consistent with the risk appetite set  by the management body. It also must be consistent with the firm’s approach for measuring and  managing liquidity and funding risks. The management body   is also expected to ensure that the  ILAAP is well integrated into management processes and the firm’s decision - making culture.  Producing an ILAAP document  As a general guide, the PRA expects that the ILAAP document which supports its liquidity review  and evaluation process is in line with the EBA guidelines on common procedures and methodologies  for SREP 9   and aligns with the further guidance in this supervisory statement. The PRA has provided  template s   in Appendi ces   1   and 2   as   a guide for firms when producing their ILAAP documents.  The PRA recognises that for small firms with simple business models it may not be necessary to  follow the template   in appendix 1 , or   all   elements in the template, provided all the key aspects are  covered.   For   SDDTs , the PRA has developed the template in   A ppendix 2.   This approach is consistent  with the PRA’s secondary competition objective. The PRA expects the document to be firm specific,  5   See SS1/19 ‘Non - binding PRA materials: The PRA’s approach after the UK’s withdrawal from the EU’:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/non - binding - pra - materials - the - pras - approach - after - the - uks -  withdrawal - from - the - eu - ss .  6   The full definition of an SDDT and an SDDT consolidation entity, including the SDDT and SDDT consolidation entity criteria, a re set out  in the SDDT Regime   –   General Application Part of the PRA Rulebook. For ease of reading, any references to SDDT(s) in thi s SS should  be treated as applicable to both SDDTs and SDDT consolidation entities.  7   As defined in SS3/21 ‘ Non - systemic UK banks: The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to new and growing banks ’:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/april/new - and - growing - banks - ss  8   As defined in the Glossary section of the PRA Rulebook,   http://media.fshandbook.info/Handbook/Glossaryv7_PRA_20150402.pdf .  9   www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/935249/EBA - GL - 2014 - 13+%28Guidelines+on+SREP+methodologies+and+processes%29.pdf . This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

not prepared in a formulaic manner, and to reflect the applicable business model. The PRA is equally  sceptical of overly large, unwieldy documents as it is of documents providing too little detail.  Firms should refer to Title 5 of the EBA SREP guidelines when assessing the soundness,  effectiveness,   and comprehensiveness of their   ILAAP   document. In particular, the PRA expects a firm  to demonstrate in its ILAAP document that it complies with the expectations outlined in the rest of  this chapter.  2.6A An overview of how the firm applies the LCR and   Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR )   rules in its  reporting may also be appropriate, including, if relevant, how the firm has interpreted the  classifications of retail and operational deposits and the work undertaken annually in response to  Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR)   Article 23 and Liquidity (CRR) Article 428p(10).  Transition from ILAA/ILSA to ILAAP  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  Overall liquidity adequacy  A key purpose of the ILAAP is to document and demonstrate overall liquidity adequacy. The  PRA’s approach to liquidity supervision is based on the principle that a firm must have adequate  levels of liquidity resources and a prudent funding profile, and that   it comprehensively manages and  controls liquidity and funding risks.  The firm itself is responsible for the effective management of its liquidity and funding risks. This  overarching principle is set out in the overall liquidity adequacy rule (OLAR) in Chapter 2 of the ILAA  rules, and supplemented by Chapter 3 of the ILAA ru les on overall strategies, processes and systems.  As part of the ILAAP, a firm should undertake a regular assessment of the adequacy of its  liquidity resources to cover its liabilities as they fall due in stressed conditions. Central to this process  is an appropriate and clearly articulated risk appetite   statement defining the duration and type of  stress or stresses that the firm aims to survive. This risk appetite should be cascaded throughout the  firm in the form of appropriate limits, which may include gap limits or concentration limits around  currency,   funding sources, the makeup of liquid asset buffers, encumbrance of assets, and the firm’s  structural liquidity position. The PRA also expects firms to articulate for themselves the amount of  risk they are willing to take across different business lines t o achieve their strategic objectives. This  risk appetite should be consistent with the PRA’s duty to advance its general objective of promoting  the safety and soundness of firms. 10  For the purposes of the OLAR, liquidity resources are not confined to the amount or value of a  firm’s marketable, or otherwise realisable, assets. Rather, in assessing the adequacy of those  10   See also, ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to banking supervision’ ;   available at:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/pra - approach - documents - 2018 . This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

resources, a firm should have regard to the overall nature of the liquidity resources available to it,  which enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  The LCR   and NSFR   are   distinct from and do not replace the concept of overall liquidity  adequacy. The LCR   and NSFR   are   rules applying to   a wide range of   firms and therefore could fail to  capture firm - specific risks. The LCR   and NSFR   also do not capture any of the qualitative  arrangements that the PRA requires a firm to implement to ensure compliance with the OLAR. It  follows that a firm cannot rely solely on meeting the   NSFR,   LCR   and/or LCR and Pillar 2 guidance   in  order to satisfy the OLAR.  Prudent funding profile  2.17A   As part of the overall liquidity adequacy requirement, the PRA requires firms to ensure that  they maintain a ‘prudent funding profile’. 11   A firm’s funding profile is prudent if it demonstrates  sufficient access to an appropriate diversity of funding sources which are highly likely to continue to  be sufficient and available at a reasonable cost in a variety of normal and stressed market  cond itions. Firms should ensure that areas of heightened risk in their funding profiles are not  excessive in terms of potentially leading to an increased cost of funding, vulnerability to stress, or  outflows during stress, beyond acceptable boundaries. Such ar eas might include: maturity  mismatches, concentration of funding sources, levels of asset encumbrance, or unstable funding of  long - term assets.  2.17B The ILAA Part of the rules requires firms to put in place risk management policies to define  their approach to asset encumbrance, as well as procedures and controls that ensure that the risks  associated with collateral management and asset encumbran ce are adequately identified,  monitored and managed. Such policies are also essential for firms to meet the broader requirement  of ensuring a prudent funding profile.  2.17C As a firm encumbers a higher proportion of its available assets in normal times, it will have  less capacity remaining, should a stress occur, to encumber additional assets to raise cash to meet  its obligations. This makes the firm less resilient to   stress, which may cause creditors to charge  higher spreads or respond more quickly to signs of stress. Therefore, higher levels of asset  encumbrance in normal times can negatively affect funding stability. In addition, unsecured creditors  become increasing ly subordinated as a firm encumbers more of its assets. As such, excessive  encumbrance may affect the losses of a firm’s unsecured creditors, given the firm’s default.  Consequently, unsecured creditors may react more quickly to signs of stress in firms wit h higher  levels of encumbrance. This is an additional channel through which asset encumbrance can  negatively affect funding stability.  2.17D The PRA expects that firms consider appropriately these and other impacts of asset  encumbrance on the stability of their funding profiles. Firms should articulate a tolerance for the  risks that excessive encumbrance poses through clearly defined met rics which are reported both  internally and to the PRA in firms’ ILAAP documents. They should monitor these metrics against their  appetite regularly at appropriate forums (eg as part of their board risk committees’ regular  monitoring of financial risks) an d where approach, should set limits to constrain the business and  keep risks to tolerance.  Stress testing  Comprehensive, robust stress testing is vital to ensure compliance with the OLAR. The PRA  expects firms to consider in their stress testing the impact of a range of severe but plausible stress  scenarios on their cash flows, liquidity resources, profitabili ty, solvency, asset encumbrance , funding  11   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) Part, 2.2(1)(b). This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

profile   and survival horizon. Stress scenarios should be selected to reveal the vulnerabilities of the  firm’s funding, including for example, a vulnerability to previously liquid markets becoming  unexpectedly illiquid. Stress testing scenarios should include a ma croeconomic stress. The PRA  expects the degree of conservatism of the scenarios and assumptions to be discussed in the ILAAP  document.  2.18A The PRA expects firms to consider the effects of the stress scenario on the stability of their  funding. Firms should consider the impacts that the stress is likely to have on their asset  encumbrance. Firms should also consider, for example, the effe cts that increasing asset  encumbrance, or reduced profitability or solvency, might have on their credit rating or market  perception of their creditworthiness, their cost of funding, and the behaviour of unsecured creditors  throughout the stress.  The PRA expects , in line with paragraph 3.12,   firms to consider the lowest point of cumulative  stressed net cashflows both within the 30 - day LCR horizon and within the context of survival days  along the horizon of their own risk appetite. Daily granularity is necessary for this analysis.  In analysing the key risk drivers set out in Chapter 11 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects firms to  make appropriate assumptions, both quantitative and qualitative. In particular, firms should include  the following assumptions, discussed in detail in the E BA SREP Guidelines, where appropriate (the  PRA’s presumption is that these are consistent with existing internal liquidity management policies  adopted by firms).  (i)   The run - off of retail funding  This includes an assessment of the likely run - off of different components of the retail book,  taking into account common features such as guarantee cover, maturity, interest rate  sensitivity, customer type, product type, deposit size, or the channel throug h which the  deposits were affected.  (ii)   The reduction of secured and unsecured wholesale funding  This includes an assessment of the type and geographical location of the counterparty, the  level of creditor seniority, the nature of the relationship the firm has with the counterparty,  the type of underlying collateral (if applicable), and the speed of o utflow. The risk of  shortening tenors should also be assessed.   Excessive levels of asset encumbrance and/or  insufficient quantities of unencumbered high quality assets before or during a stress may act  as a risk factor in this assessment.  (iii)   The correlation and concentration of funding  Firms should include an assessment that takes into account instrument type, markets,  currency, liability term structure,   counterparty and market access, as   appropriate. A firm  should also consider the effectiveness   of its diversification strategy, including in relation to the  diversity of the assets which it could encumber to generate liquid resources if needed.  (iv)   Additional contingent off - balance sheet exposures  Firms should include, where appropriate, an assessment of derivative cash flows caused by  maturity, exercise, repricing, margin calls, a change in the value of posted collateral, collateral  substitution, sleeper collateral, and volatile market conditions.   Firms should also consider  funding commitments (facilities, undrawn loans and mortgages, overdrafts and credit cards),  guarantees and trade finance contracts, as well as facilities to support securitisation vehicles,  including sponsored and third - party str uctures.  (v)   Funding tenors This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Firms should consider vulnerabilities within the term structure due to external, internal or  contractual events (where the funding provider has call options).  (vi)   The impact of a deterioration in the firm’s credit rating  Firms should consider all types of contractual and behavioural outflows resulting from credit  downgrades of varying magnitude, the types of collateral which may be required and the  speed of outflow where appropriate.  (vii)   Foreign exchange convertibility and access to foreign exchange markets  Firms should calculate stressed outflows by individual currency and tenor where appropriate.  This information must support an assessment of how shortfalls can be funded in a stressed  market with impaired access to foreign exchange markets and loss of conve rtibility.  (viii) The ability to transfer liquidity across entities, sectors and countries  Firms should assess the intragroup support assumed available in stress, or the impact of a  failure of a group entity to repay loans in a timely manner, where appropriate. This  assessment should include considering existing legal, regulatory and operational   limitations to  potential transfers of liquidity and unencumbered assets amongst entities, business lines,  countries and currencies.   Firms should detail information on their approach for measuring and  managing intragroup liquidity risk and develop their ow n assessment of the risk of contingent  trapped liquidity, on an individual, sub - consolidated (where applicable) and consolidated level.  Firms should consider the likely implications of these risks in their stress scenarios and discuss  the degree of conserv atism and assumptions applied.  (ix)   Estimates of future balance sheet growth  This should include considering how planned or forecast balance sheets may behave in stress  and whether the firm’s risk appetite would be breached.  (x)   The impact on a firm’s reputation or franchise  Firms should include an assessment of implicit liquidity requirements arising from a need to  fulfil expectations to acquire assets, rollover or buy back assets, to extend or maintain other  forms of liquidity support, or to permit premature termination of r etail term or notice  liabilities   or derivative exposures for reputational reasons or to protect the franchise, as  appropriate. Firms should also bear in mind that responses to a liquidity stress cannot include  actions that would significantly damage their   franchise.  In addition, the PRA also expects firms to consider the quantitative and qualitative  assumptions for the following risk drivers which are not explicitly addressed in the EBA SREP  Guidelines, where appropriate:  (i)   Marketable asset risk  Firms should include a consideration of how factors affecting their ability to liquidate assets or  monetise them through sale or repurchase agreements may change in stress. This should  include market access, haircuts, timelines, pricing, operational capaci ty or eligibility.  (ii)   Non - marketable asset risk  The PRA defines non - marketable assets as being those assets which cannot be monetised via  repo or immediate outright sale. They could be monetised, for example, via the securitisation  market or as covered bonds. Firms should include an assessment of how fa ctors affecting the  liquidity of those assets (eg counterparty stress, whether market access is frequent and  established, early amortisation triggers, or financing of warehoused assets) may change under  stress. This assessment should be sensitive to factor s including the proportion of the firm’s  assets which become encumbered throughout the stress, the nature of the stress, the types of  assets the firm holds, and the sophistication of the firm’s capabilities to monetise similar This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

assets. Firms should consider the effects that this monetisation could have on their overall  levels of asset encumbrance.  (iii)   Internalisation risk  Internalisation risk occurs where firm or customer long positions are funded using the  proceeds from customer short trades. When clients close out their short positions and these  arrangements unwind, this may generate substantial liquidity outflows. Intern alisation and  netting efficiencies within synthetic prime brokerage also give rise to liquidity risk. Firms  should include an assessment of these risks.  Consistent with Chapter 11 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects the results of the stress  testing exercise to be presented to the firm’s management body on a regular basis.  Intraday liquidity risk management  A further risk driver where the PRA expects firms to make appropriate assumptions is intraday  liquidity risk. This is the risk that a firm is unable to meet its daily settlement obligations, for  example, as a result of timing mismatches arising from direct   and indirect membership of relevant  payment or security settlement systems. Firms should ensure that they have sufficient liquidity at all  times to maintain normal payment activity if:  •   incoming payments are delayed by several hours or until close to the payment cut off times;  •   credit lines are withdrawn and/or require full collateralisation; or  •   large individual clients default on their payments.  The PRA assesses that intraday liquidity risk exposures are material for firms and firms are  therefore expected to demonstrate robust analysis of their intraday liquidity risk profile both in  business - as - usual and under stress scenarios.  2.24A   All direct participants in payment and securities settlement systems should be able to  calculate their maximum net debit position for each respective system in which they participate.  Indirect participants that are currently unable to calculate their maxim um net debit position are  encouraged to engage with their correspondent   bank(s), with the aim of improving the granularity  and timeliness of payment settlement data to enable them to do this . The PRA will be proportionate  in its expectations on the   ability of indirect participants to be able to do this for all markets.  Managing the High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) buffer  As part of their ILAAP, and within OLAR, firms should consider carefully the appropriateness of  the liquid assets held, even where they comply with the Delegated Act. Firms should note, for  example, that the Delegated Act permits a far wider range of eligi ble liquid assets than was eligible  under Chapter 12 of the Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms  (BIPRU 12). Firms should also assess their ability to convert their buffers of liquid assets into cash in  a short timeframe . The PRA would expect firms to set a risk appetite and framework which will  govern the management and monitoring of their liquid asset portfolio. This includes having  appropriate internal limits and controls to ensure that the ability to monetise HQLAs in   stress is not  limited in any way.  Some of the risk drivers identified above inform the assessment of firms’ ability to monetise  their buffers. These include ‘marketable asset risk’, ‘foreign exchange convertibility and access to  foreign exchange markets’ and ‘the ability to transfer liquid ity across entities, sectors and countries’.  Related to consideration of these risk drivers, the operational requirements in Delegated Act Article  8 also establish key principles which firms should observe. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

This section highlights certain factors which the PRA regards as particularly important if firms  are to demonstrate their ability to monetise their buffers on an appropriate timescale.  Testing the ability to monetise  Delegated Act Article 8(4) requires firms to regularly monetise a sufficiently representative  sample of their holdings of HQLA (with the exception of certain asset classes). The PRA’s  expectations of firms’ compliance with this requirement will be proporti onate, taking into account  the firm’s business model.  Firms are also reminded of the obligation in of Delegated Act Article 8(2) to have ready access  to their holdings of HQLAs and to ensure that there are no legal or operational restrictions to  monetising HQLAs at any time during the   30 calendar day stress period. In particular, while  accounting classifications remain decisions for firms, where firms hold HQLAs in the held - to - maturity  portfolio, they should be able to demonstrate that this does not create barriers to their ability to  m onetise these assets.  Cashflow mismatch risk (CFMR) monetisation assumptions  2.29A   From the date   firms first report   PRA110, the PRA expects f irms to assess, at least annually   (or  every two years for SDDTs   that are not new and growing banks )   in their ILAAP, the speed with which  they expect to be able to monetise different types of non - cash HQLA, on a daily basis, through repo  markets and outright sales in times of stress. Firms should take into account relevant factors such as  market depth, n umber of regular counterparties, the firm’s individual turnover and incremental  market access   in stress, the need to rollover short - term repo transactions and settlement times etc.  Firms should also consider the extent to which their ability to monetise HQLA through outright sale  could be adversely affected by the accounting classification, in par ticular where sale of the asset  would crystallise a loss that arises because of the difference between the fair value at the point of  sale and the carry value in the firm’s accounts. Firms should provide evidence of the data used for  their assessments in t heir ILAAPs. Firms should not include public liquidity insurance as a non - cash  HQLA monetisation channel in this assessment. This enables the PRA to monitor firms’ resilience to  different stresses using self - insurance alone. The monetisation profile will n ot be included in the  granular LCR stress scenario for the purposes of assessing compliance with the guidance outlined in  paragraph 3.12.  2.29B   Firms should use their assessments to apply daily monetisation limits to their stock of  different types of non - cash HQLA available at the reporting date, in the CFMR framework. The  monetisation profiles should be computed on a consolidated currency level a s well as in each  significant currency. Firms will report the resulting monetisation profiles in PRA110 . 12  Diversification of assets  Delegated Act Article 8(1) requires firms to have in place appropriate internal limits and  controls to ensure that they appropriately diversify their HQLA buffer. This should be sufficient to  demonstrate that their ability to monetise HQLAs in a short time frame without significant loss of  value is not compromised by exposure to a common risk factor. In addition, the PRA expects larger  firms to take into account the absolute size of their HQLA holdings and to be able to monetise these  without compromising on   either speed of disposal or price. They should also consider the impact of  their actions on the wider market and on financial stability.  Firms should have due regard to their own business model when determining the appropriate  level of diversification in their buffer. In particular, they should consider the risk that a particular  12   PRA110 is available on the Regulatory reporting   –   banking sector section of the Bank of England’s website:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/regulatory - reporting/regulatory - reporting - banking - sector . This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

asset holding becomes illiquid just when the firm itself needs to draw down its buffer, for example,  because both the firm and the asset are exposed to a common risk factor. Conversely, they should  also consider whether their choice of assets is appropriat e given their ability to manage properly the  risk in those assets, and to access the relevant repo or sale market.  The PRA may consider exercising   its statutory powers under FSMA to   set requirements on a  firm to enforce increased diversification of the HQLA buffer, or conversely to restrict holdings of  particular asset classes. This may include requirements on a firm’s liquidity management practices or  investment policies.   T he PRA may also restrict holdings of particular asset classes if it observes that  this exposes several firms to a common set of risk factors.  Currency mismatch (see also risk driver vii)  Currency conversion is an additional step between monetising HQLA and using HQLA to meet  specific outflows. Therefore, firms should have appropriate policies and controls to manage the risk  that the currency denomination of assets is an obstacle to using t heir assets when meeting outflows  in a specific currency in stress.  The PRA may consider exercising its statutory powers under FSMA to restrict currency  mismatches. It could do so by setting limits on the proportion of currency - specific net stressed  outflows that can be met by holding HQLAs not denominated in that currency . The PRA may exercise  its powers through a range of firm - specific measures, including setting the LCR by currency on  significant currencies (therefore including the reporting currency).   In determining the level of any  restriction, the PRA   would   consider   a ll relevant factors, including :  •   Whether the firm has the ability to do any of the following:  (i)   use the liquid assets to generate liquidity in the currency and jurisdiction in which the net  liquidity outflows arise;  (ii)   swap currencies and raise funds in foreign currency markets during stressed conditions,  consistent with the 30 calendar day stress period; and  (iii)   transfer a liquidity surplus from one currency to another and across jurisdictions and legal  entities within its group during stressed conditions consistent with the 30 calendar day  stress period.  •   The impact of a sudden   adverse exchange rate movement on existing mismatched positions and  on the effectiveness of any foreign exchange hedges in place.  Transferability of funds (see also risk driver viii)  With regard to the risk that, in severely stressed circumstances, liquidity might not be freely  transferable between and within group entities, across national borders, as well as between  currencies, the PRA expects firms to demonstrate that the assumption s they make are realistic.  Further to PRA Rulebook Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Rule 8, firms should include  detailed information, at all relevant levels of application of liquidity requirements, in their ILAAPs,  on:  (a)   The distribution of outflows, inflows and liquid assets by location, with a breakdown by all  significant currencies, as determined under the CRR.  (b) The distinction between intragroup and external inflows; This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

(c) Where liquid assets are not aligned to net outflows by currency or by location, a consideration of  how liquid assets located elsewhere in the group may be immediately available, with particular  emphasis on:  (i) the ease with which liquid assets can be moved across legal entities and jurisdictions  (including within the same legal entity, for example between a firm’s overseas branch and a  firm’s head office);  (ii) the ease with which liquid assets can be moved across different time zones;  (iii) the ease with which liquid assets can be transferred from one currency into another  (including the operational ease of monetisation);  (iv) the potential consequences of moving liquid assets across different legal entities and  jurisdictions; and  (v) the entities, decision - making bodies and processes involved in the control of the  movement of these liquid assets, and the potential impact on the immediate availability of  those liquid assets.  (d) Where outflows at an individual (or sub - group) level are significantly covered by intragroup  inflows, a consideration of the impact of stress on intragroup inflows.  2.35AA Under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR), firms are required to allocate a Prescribed  Responsibility (PR) for managing the allocation and maintenance of the firm’s capital, funding and  liquidity to an individual performing a Senior Management Function   (SMF). The PRA expects:  •   the SMF allocated this PR to ensure that the firm conducts the assessment specified in  paragraph 2.35, and to document it in the firm’s ILAAP submissions; and  •   firms to ensure this expectation is explicitly reflected in the relevant SMF’s Statement of  Responsibilities.  Eligibility of reserves held at the Bank of England  2.35A   Delegated Act Article 10(1)(b)(iii) requires the conditions for withdrawal of central bank  reserves to be specified in an agreement between the relevant competent authority and the  central bank in order for such reserves to be eligible as Level 1 HQLA. An   agreement between the  PRA, as competent authority, and the Bank of England, acting in its capacity as the central bank,  states that:  ‘All reserves held in firms’ primary reserve accounts, and in their reserve collateralisation accounts  that are in excess of the minima required to pre - fund deferred net settlement payment systems,  are withdrawable in times of stress. This is without preju dice to the Bank of England’s ability to set  a minimum balance on a reserve account. Reserves subject to a minimum balance would not be  withdrawable up to the amount of the minimum balance. In the event that the Bank of England set  a minimum balance it wou ld, other than in exceptional circumstances (for example in response to a  Court order), notify the account holder.’  Eligibility of shares   for HQLA This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

2.35B   For the purposes of Delegated Act Article 12(1)(c)(i) , when considering whether shares  form part of a major stock index of a third country, firms should take into consideration stock  indices identified as ‘major’ by the relevant public authority in that country.  Eligibility of non - interest bearing assets, including sukuk 13  Delegated Act Article 12(1)(f) allows firms to include in their liquidity buffer non - interest  bearing assets which do not otherwise meet the minimum rating criteria, provided these assets  meet other specified criteria and if these firms are unable for reas ons of religious observance to hold  interest - bearing assets, in accordance with their statutes of incorporation. The PRA expects that this  provision will apply only to firms whose entire operations are structured and conducted in  accordance with Islamic co mmercial jurisprudence and its investment principles. However, firms  should satisfy themselves that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers.  As set out in the   Statement of Policy ‘ Liquidity and Funding Permissions ’ , these firms may also  benefit from a permission that allows firms to omit two specific criteria that determine the eligibility  of corporate debt securities for inclusion in a firm’s Level 2B HQLA buffer: these two criteria are the  minimum issue size and m aximum time to maturity. The PRA expects that a number of sukuk will  meet the conditions that allow the PRA to exercise this discretion .  Delegated Act Article 7(6) requires firms to assess whether a trading venue provides for an  active and sizeable market, in order to confirm that assets that are not listed on recognised  exchanges are tradable via outright sale. In particular, firms are req uired to take into account the  minimum criteria specified in Delegated Act Article 7(6)(a) and (b) when making this assessment. The  PRA acknowledges that firms will need to exercise judgement in deciding whether these criteria are  met in relation to specif ic assets, including sukuk. It is the responsibility of firms to satisfy  themselves that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers. Firms should contact  their PRA supervisor if, after completing their assessment, they are still unsure w hether their assets  meet the requirement stated in the Delegated Act.  When considering the option of restricting currency mismatches ,   the PRA will take into account  all relevant considerations: this will include considerations relevant to firms that, for reasons of  religious observance, are unable to hold interest - bearing assets.  Liquidity contingency plan  Chapter 12 of the ILAA rules sets out the requirements a firm needs to meet in relation to its  liquidity contingency plan. In addition, the PRA requires firms to prepare a recovery plan under the  Recovery Plans part of the PRA Rulebook.  2.40A The PRA strongly encourages firms to combine their liquidity contingency plan (also known as  a contingency funding plan) and their recovery plan into one integrated document. This would  ensure that the firm has a coherent process for being alerted to   and addressing a liquidity stress and  helps to ensure a coherent risk management framework. The PRA recognises that there may be  some instances when it is necessary to maintain separate documents (eg due to the requirements of  local regulators), but expec ts these to be exceptional and that any separate documents should be  consistent with each other.  2.40B When integrating the two documents, firms should ensure that no content is lost which could  hinder the response to a liquidity stress, particularly relating to the implementation of ‘earlier stage’  liquidity options. If a firm decides to maintain two   different documents and processes, the recovery  13   Certificates of equal value representing an undivided interest in the ownership of specified assets or investments acquired o r to be  acquired and that comply with Islamic commercial jurisprudence and its investment principles, but excluding shares. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

plan should clearly explain the rationale for doing so and how the two documents and processes  interact in terms of indicators, recovery options and governance. These arrangements should also be  informed by the results of firms’ liquidity stress testing, a s detailed in the ILAAP document.  Regardless of firms’ arrangements, they should be cross - referenced, where appropriate, in the ILAAP  document. The PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its review of firms’ liquidity  management.  Transfer pricing  As part of their compliance with Chapter 6 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects firms to ensure  that liquidity and funding costs, benefits and risks are fully incorporated into firms’ product pricing,  performance measurement and incentives, and new product a nd transaction approval processes. All  significant business lines should be included, whether on or off - balance sheet. Both stressed and  business - as - usual costs should be assessed. The process should be transparent and understood by  business line managemen t, and regularly reviewed to ensure it remains appropriately calibrated. The  PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its review of firms’ liquidity management  Management of Required Stable Funding (RSF)   in   the   Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)  Eligibility of shares   in the NSFR  For the purposes of   Liquidity (CRR) Article 428ad(a)(i) ,   when considering whether shares form  part of a major stock index of a third country, firms should take into consideration stock indices  identified as ‘major’ by the relevant public authority in that country.  For the purposes of Liquidity (CRR) Article 428ad (a) (iii), firms are required to consider whether  shares have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity ,   which will be the case if the shares have  a maximum decline of price   over a 30 day period   not exceeding 40% ,   or increase in haircut over a 30  day period not exceeding 40   percentage points ,   during a relevant period of significant liquidity  stress .   For these purposes ,   a   ‘ relevant period of significant liquidity stress ’   is a period during which  the maj or stock index on which the equity is traded has had a decline in value of 40% or more   over a  30 day period . When considering this, firms should identify any such periods which have occurred  during the preceding 11 years, with a one year lag.   For example, as at 1 Jan uary   2022 ,   firms should  consider the period from 1 Jan uary   2011 to 1 Jan uary   2021 .  Currency   m ismatches  For the purposes of   Liquidity (CRR) Article 428b(5) ,   when considering whether the distribution  of   their   funding profile by currency denomination is generally consistent with the distribution of  their   assets by currency, firms   may   take into   account   their   use of off - balance sheet derivatives   to  manage currency mismatches .  Application of the NSFR   to   Small Domestic Deposit Takers  Chapter   4   of the Liquidity (CRR)   Part   sets out the requirements a firm   must meet in relation to  its stable funding profile, including the application of the NSFR .  The following examples   provide guidance on how the test works for   the   application of   the  NSFR for   SDDTs , 14   in accordance with the   Chapter 5   of the Liquidity (CRR) part of the PRA Rulebook.  Chapter 5 sets out the calculation of the Retail Deposit Ratio (RDR). Chapter 5 also sets out that a  firm may disapply the NSFR if it meets the RDR condition i.e. if its four - quarter moving average RDR  is greater than or equal to 50% for four consecutive q uarters. Firms should calculate the RDR on a  14   ‘SDDTs’ or ‘firms’ refers to SDDTs and SDDT consolidation entities for the rest of this section (‘Application of the NSFR to   Small  Domestic Deposit Takers’). This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

quarterly basis using data submitted in the C68 template by the remittance date for the relevant  quarter .  T hese examples consider:  •   a   reporting reference date of   31 March 20 25 ;  •   a   remittance date   of   six   weeks from the 31 March   2025   (ie 12 May   2025 ).  Example of a firm that   may disapply the NSFR because its four - quarter moving average RDR  is greater than or equal to 50% for four consecutive quarters  By 12 May 2025, the firm calculates the four - quarter moving average using its RDR as at 31 March  2025 and as at the three preceding quarterly reference dates :  (1)   𝑅𝐷𝑅 2025   𝑄 1   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 4   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 3   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 2  4  The firm would also consider the moving averages as at the end of the three preceding  quarters:  (2)   𝑅𝐷𝑅 2024   𝑄 4   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 3   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 2   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 1  4  (3)   𝑅𝐷𝑅 2024   𝑄 3   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 2   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 1   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2023   𝑄 4  4  (4)   𝑅𝐷𝑅 2024   𝑄 2   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 1   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2023   𝑄 4   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2023   𝑄 3  4  If the firm’s four - quarter moving average RDRs for the most recent four quarters were all greater  than or equal to 50%, the NSFR requirement would not apply to the firm.  Example of a firm   that must apply the NSFR because its four - quarter moving average RDR is  below 50%  On 12 May   2025 , the fir m calculate s   the   four - quarter moving average using its RDR as at 31 March  2025 reference date, and as at the three preceding quarterly reference dates:  𝑅𝐷𝑅 2025   𝑄 1   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 4   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 3   +   𝑅𝐷 𝑅 2024   𝑄 2  4  If the output from this calculation is below 50% on the remittance date on 12 May 2025, then  under Rule 5.7 of Chapter 5 of the Liquidity (CRR) Part of the Rulebook, the firm would be required  to notify the PRA without delay and, under Rule 5.6, the firm w ould be required to implement the  NSFR one year from the day after the remittance date.  However, if the firm’s four - quarter moving average RDRs for the quarters Q2 2025, Q3 2025, Q4  2025 and Q1 2026 were all greater than or equal to 50%, the firm would now meet the RDR  condition so the NSFR requirement would not apply.  New firms  A n   SDDT may disapply the NSFR provisions, including Chapters 3 and 4 of the Liquidity (CRR)  Part of the PRA Rulebook, if the four most recent four - quarter moving average RDRs (using data  submitted in the C68 template from the previous seven quarters) are all greater than or equal to  50%. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

However, a new firm including one in mobilisation will not have reported sufficient historical  data to calculate four four - quarter moving average RDRs. For new firms that are eligible for, and  intend to enter, the   SDDT   regime, the PRA recognises that, in many cases, it may not be appropriate  for them   to be required to apply the NSFR. For example, a firm may be able to demonstrate how it  will be primarily retail funded and so have a high RDR. In such a case, the firm may be able to show  how it would be undul y burdensome to require it to apply the NSFR for what would likely to be a  temporary period until it built up sufficient quarterly data points .  The PRA encourages new firms that are eligible for, and intend to enter, the   SDDT   regime to  consider whether there is a case for the PRA to modify its rules to disapply   the NSFR. The PRA would  consider applications for such modifications as part of the new firm authorisations process.  For new firms who are authorised without restriction on accepting deposits exceeding an  aggregate of £50,000 (i.e. new firms not utilising mobilisation), the PRA expects that RDRs calculated  for reporting reference dates from the point of authorisation sho uld be representative of its long  term business model. A modification to disapply the NSFR for such a firm would generally be  expected to have effect for 7 quarters starting from the point of authorisation (i.e. until the point at  which it can calculate it s fourth four quarter moving average RDR using data submitted in the C68  template).  New firms utilising mobilisation are authorised with a restriction on their permissions to  prevent them accepting deposits exceeding an aggregate of £50,000 while in mobilisation. For these  firms, the PRA considers that an RDR calculated while this mobilis ation restriction is in place would  be unlikely to be representative of the funding model of the firm once no longer subject to the  restriction. The PRA therefore expects that only RDRs calculated for reporting reference dates after  this mobilisation restr iction has been removed should be used in assessing whether a firm should  disapply the NSFR. Therefore, where the PRA grants a modification to a firm in mobilisation to  disapply the NSFR, it would expect the modification to only have effect until the firm   can calculate its  fourth four - quarter moving average RDR after the restriction is lifted. Once the modification stops  having effect, the firm could disapply the NSFR if its four - quarter moving average RDR was greater  than or equal to 50% for four consecuti ve quarters, as set out in Chapter 5 of the Liquidity (CRR) Part  of the Rulebook.  Monitoring of the RDR  The RDR should be calculated using data submitted in the C68 template, and as set out in  Chapter 5 of the Liquidity (CRR) Part of the Rulebook. Firms should calculate the RDR on a quarterly  basis using data from the relevant quarter end reference dates.  Chapter 5 sets out that firms must notify the PRA without delay from the remittance date if  they cease to meet the RDR condition (or if, having previously notified the PRA that they ceased to  meet the condition, they now meet it). The PRA also expects firm s to notify the PRA if their funding  model shifts materially towards wholesale funding intra - quarter, further to Fundamental Rule 7 of  the PRA Rulebook. If the PRA believes that a firm’s funding position could pose shorter - term risks, it  may consider using   its powers to require the firm to apply the NSFR before the application date  specified in Rule 5.6 of Chapter 5 of the Liquidity (CRR) Part of the   Rulebook.  Use   of   Additional Liquidity Monitoring Metrics   (ALMM)   data   pre - dating the   SDDT   R egime  The   quarterly submission of a   completed   C68   template   provides the PRA with information   on  SDDTs’   concentration of funding by product type.   SDDTs   must   report the   ALMM   information  specified   in   the   C68   template   showing all product totals,   without distinguishing product types This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

showing concentrations greater than 1% of total liabilities from other product types.   During the first  year of   implementation of   the   SDDT   regime ,   SDDTs   may   use   data from   C68   submissions   prior to the  SDDT   regime effective date ( which exclude   liabilities of   a product type comprising   less than   1% of  total) together with new quarterly C68 data   ( without the 1% threshold applied, including all  liabilities )   to calculate their RDR.   The PRA considers that this would be proportionate, in light of   basis  for   the   reporting of   liabilities in the C68   prior to   the date of implementation   of the   SDDT   regime .  The Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (L - SREP)  Consistent with the   process set out in the EBA SREP Guidelines and building on previous liquidity  reviews and ongoing supervisory activities, the PRA will carry out an L - SREP of the firm in a manner  and at a frequency which is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexit y of a firm’s activities.  This approach is consistent with the PRA’s secondary competition objective.  In carrying out the L - SREP, the PRA will as a minimum undertake the following:  •   review the arrangements, strategies, and processes implemented by a firm to comply with the  liquidity standards laid down in the ILAA rules, the Liquidity (CRR)   P art of the PRA   R ulebook, and  the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR)   P art of the PRA   R ulebook. This includes reviewing firms’  Common Reporting (COREP) liquidity returns.  •   evaluate the liquidity and funding risks to which the firm is or might be exposed, for example as  a result of the proportion of the firm’s assets that are encumbered;  •   assess the risks that the firm poses to the financial system;  •   evaluate the further liquidity and funding risks revealed by stress testing; and  •   evaluate whether the level and composition of the firm’s liquidity resources are adequate to  meet the firm’s liquidity needs over different time horizons.  Based on this assessment, the PRA will:  •   determine specific quantitative ILG (individual liquidity guidance);  •   determine specific qualitative ILG; and  •   determine firms’ overall liquidity risk scoring.  The following paragraphs detail how the PRA will carry out L - SREPs, and how it will set ILG.  L - SREP  The PRA will assess whether a firm, in its ILAAP document, has adequately identified its liquidity  needs across appropriate time horizons in severe but plausible stresses for all relevant risk drivers  and whether its liquidity resources are adequate to mee t those needs. 15   In addition, the L - SREP will  also review the governance arrangements of the firm, its risk management culture, and the ability of  members of the management body to perform their duties. The degree of involvement of the  management body will be taken into a ccount, as will the appropriateness of the internal processes  and systems underlying the ILAAP. Examples of review topics might cover the firm’s risk appetite,  liquidity contingency plans, non - stressed funding plans, collateral management, the ability to  15   Including the amount of liquidity resources which could be generated by encumbering other assets. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

monetise HQLAs and wider liquidity in a timely fashion, intraday arrangements, market access and  the firm’s management of risks associated with asset encumbrance, including how asset  encumbrance might develop over time during and absent stress.  The PRA may need to request further information and meet with the management body and  other representatives of a firm   in order to evaluate fully the comprehensiveness of the ILAAP and  the adequacy of the governance arrangements around it. The management body should be able to  demonstrate an understanding of the ILAAP consistent with its taking responsibility for   the ILAAP.  And the management of the firm at appropriate levels should be prepared to discuss and defend all  aspects of the ILAAP, covering both qu antitative and qualitative components.   Additionally, the PRA  will consider the business model of the firm and the advocated rationale for the model, as well as  the firm’s expectations regarding the future market and economic environment and how they might  affect its liquidity position and fundi ng profile.  The PRA will review if a firm accurately and consistently complies with the obligations of the  Delegated Act, including whether a firm is appropriately applying the   outflow rates prescribed in the  Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR)   P art of the PRA   R ulebook and the funding factors specified in the  Liquidity (CRR)   P art of the PRA   R ulebook .  On the basis of the L - SREP, the PRA will determine whether the arrangements, strategies,  processes and mechanisms implemented by a firm , its funding profile,   and the liquidity it holds  provide sound management and adequate coverage of its risks. This assessment is reflected in the  PRA’s ILG.  Setting ILG  Following the L - SREP, the PRA will give ILG. Compliance with ILG does not relieve firms of their  responsibility to comply with OLAR.  A key element of the PRA’s ILG is to advise a firm of the amount and quality of HQLAs which it  considers are appropriate, having regard to the liquidity risk profile of the firm. Quantitative  guidance will extend beyond the liquidity buffer the firm is req uired to maintain under the LCR and  will cover liquidity risks to which the firm is exposed to but which are not captured by the LCR (‘Pillar  2’ quantitative requirements). Qualitative guidance will include actions required to mitigate those  risks identifi ed as inconsistent with the PRA’s objectives. Where appropriate, the PRA may also set  specific guidance on pre - positioning collateral at the Bank of England.  Typically, ILG given to firms covers whether the:  •   quantity of   HQLAs held is sufficient;  •   quality and composition of HQLAs held are appropriate;  •   operational arrangements to manage HQLA are appropriate;  •   firm’s funding profile is appropriate; and  •   firm should undertake   any further qualitative arrangements to mitigate its liquidity risk. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Pillar 2 guidance  The   PRA   expects 16   that firms should survive throughout the granular LCR stress scenario   (30  day horizon)   of the CFMR framework   on a consolidated currency basis.   This guidance should be read  as being part of a firm’s ILG. This does not preclude the use of other stress scenarios or tools to set  guidance, for example, in temporary and targeted ways based on tests of firms’ resilience to specific,  foreseeable, future   stress events.  Mismatches under the CFMR scenarios are taken into account when assessing compliance with  the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule .  Pillar 2 asset eligibility  The type of HQLAs held to meet interim Pillar 2 add - ons should be no wider than defined in the  Delegated Act and follow the same composition by asset level as set out in the Delegated Act. The  quality of HQLAs should be appropriate to mitigate firm - specifi c risks 17   and be consistent with the  OLAR.  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  Drawing down liquid asset buffers  Firms may draw down their liquid asset buffers as required in times of stress, including where  this involves falling below the level of their quantitative ILG. 18   When this happens, the PRA will be  content for firms to rebuild their buffers over a reasonable period of time. The PRA does not expect  firms to hold higher liquid asset buffers than the amount advised in their ILG or as required to meet  their assessment   of overall liquidity adequacy, as appropriate. Specifically, there is no expectation on  firms to hold excess liquid assets so as to avoid falling below this level in the event of a potential  stress.  A firm   is expected to notify the PRA   without delay if it falls, or is expected to fall, below the level  of its quantitative ILG. It should also expect to discuss with its   supervisors its plan for restoring  compliance with the guidance, including actions already documented in the firm’s liquidity  contingency plan or broader recovery plan.  In exercising its judgement on what constitutes a reasonable time to rebuild buffers drawn  down in stress, the PRA will take into account how far the firm has run down its liquidity buffer and  the expected duration of a stress. It will also consider the dr ivers of the firm’s shortfall, including in  the context of current and forecast macroeconomic and financial conditions. The PRA will also take  into account the amount of pre - positioned collateral held at the Bank of England, or the amount  available for dra wing at other central banks to which the firm has access.  The PRA continues to expect firms to have robust levels of pre - positioning. However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access market  16   This guidance will apply from a date, not before 1 January 2020, of which at least two months’ notice will be provided on the   PRA  website.  17   For example, where the PRA advises a firm of an amount of HQLAs which the PRA considers appropriate to mitigate intraday liqu idity  risk, the PRA expects the firm to be able to liquidate these HQLAs on an intraday basis, as required.  18   If a firm falls below the level of HQLAs indicated in its ILG and the minimum LCR requirement where this is lower that does n ot  create a presumption that it is not meeting Threshold Conditions. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position collateral assets at the Bank of  England, as part of a complete suite of contingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  The PRA expects that firms   required to apply the NSFR   will maintain a NSFR of at least 100% in  normal times. In times of market - wide or idiosyncratic stress, the PRA recognises that NSFRs may fall  below 100%. In those situations, the PRA requires 19   that firms take action to return their NSFRs to  at least 100% in a timeframe that is consistent with the anticipated duration of the stress. The PRA  intends that such a timeframe will ensure that firms have sufficient time to restore their NSFR to at  leas t 100%, and without taking actions which are harmful to UK financial stability, or to firms’  financial resilience .  The PRA anticipates that, in times of stress, the Bank of England and/or third country central  banks may seek to support the financial system by providing non - standard, temporary liquidity  facilities. The PRA will consider carefully how drawing on these fa cilities might affect firms’  regulatory ratios. The PRA will stand ready to take action as appropriate to mitigate the risk that  regulatory liquidity and funding standards discourage borrowing from these facilities, consistent  with the Bank’s financial sta bility objective.  Collateral placed at the Bank of England  The Bank of England announced a number of changes to its liquidity insurance facilities in  October 2013, 20   which were further updated with the publication of the Bank of England Market  Operations Guide in October 2019. 21   These changes were designed to increase the availability and  flexibility of liquidity insurance, by providing liquidity at longer maturities, against a wider range of  collateral, at a lower cost and with greater predictability of access. The certainty wit h which a firm  can expect to be able to access the Bank of England’s facilities has been reinforced through a  presumption that all firms that meet Threshold Conditions may sign up for the Sterling Monetary  Framework and have full access to Sterling Monetar y Framework facilities against eligible collateral.  [Deleted]  5.2A   All of the Bank of England’s liquidity facilities are intended to be open for business. As such  there is no presumptive order of use for firms between using the Bank of England’s liquidity  facilities, including the Discount Window Facility (DWF), and drawi ng down of their liquidity buffers  to meet a liquidity need. Firms should exercise their own judgement in applying for, and using, the  Bank of England’s liquidity facilities. Although the PRA does not expect firms to rely on the DWF for  routine day - t o - day liquidity management, neither is it intended to be a last resort.  5.2B   As noted in SS9/17 ’Recovery Planning’, firms are expected to have credible options to restore  their financial position under different types of stresses. 22   Firms might consider the use of central  bank facilities, whether at the Bank of England or other central banks, in their recovery plans. As part  of recovery planning, firms are required to consider the circumstances in which they would need to  access thes e facilities and also test the operational aspects of their plan for accessing central banks  facilities. They should undertake an analysis of eligible assets and the drawing capacity against these,  and ensure that an appropriate amount of assets are pre - po sitioned.  19   Liquidity (CRR)   Article 414(1)(b).  20   ‘Liquidity Insurance at the Bank of England: developments in the Sterling Monetary Framework’, October 2013;  www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/markets/sterling - monetary - framework/liquidity - insurance - at - the - boe.pdf .  21   www.bankofengland.co.uk/markets/bank - of - england - market - operations - guide .  22   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2017/recovery - planning - ss . This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

A firm can count assets pre - positioned at the Bank of England to meet the PRA’s quantitative  liquidity guidance, if these assets are eligible for inclusion in the HQLA buffer under the Delegated  Act. If pre - positioned assets are not eligible for inclusion   in the HQLA buffer, they cannot be used to  meet the PRA’s quantitative liquidity guidance. However the PRA will consider the firm’s pre -  positioning position as part of its assessment of the effectiveness of the firm’s liquidity contingency  plans and will t ake appropriate mitigating action where it is inadequate. 23  The PRA continues to expect firms to have robust levels of pre - positioning. However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access market  funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position c ollateral assets at the Bank of  England, as part of a complete suite of contingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  Reporting  [deleted]  [deleted]  6.2A [deleted]  [deleted]  The PRA will be proportionate in its approach to additional or more frequent reporting from a  firm during a stress.  The PRA expects all firms to have the capability to produce key data to monitor liquidity buffers,  contractual and stress - tested cashflows, wholesale counterparties and Financial Services  Compensation Scheme balances in the event of a crisis.  Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance  In line with legal requirements, firms report all eligible HQLA within their publically disclosed  liquidity coverage ratios (LCRs). This includes HQLA held for Pillar 1 requirements, Pillar   2 guidance,  and any eligible ‘surplus’ above that. However, firms   should be clear to investors that the HQLA they  report in their LCRs is to cover both Pillar   1 and Pillar 2 risks .  The PRA expects firms not to disclose publically their total ILG. Disclosure of ILG may lead to an  expectation, from both firms and markets, that firms should hold a further buffer of liquid assets,  above their level of ILG. The PRA has no such expectation , as outlined in paragraph 4.1. Therefore,  the PRA expects that firms will not provide any further details on their Pillar   2 guidance unless  disclosure is required by law, and that firms will notify the PRA in advance of any proposed  disclosure announcemen t .  23   Note that ‘holding collateral immediately available for central bank funding’ is a specific operational step which firms must   take to  ensure that their plans can be implemented immediately (see ILAA rule, 12.3 and Article 86(11) of the CRD. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Appendix   1 :   Suggested structure and content of ILAAP document  Heading   Detail  Overview   This section is for introductory text describing the business model, the reach and systemic  presence of the firm. Internal and external changes since the last liquidity review should  be described. Changes in the scope of the document since the last review   by the  management body should be included.  Firms should justify the comprehensiveness and proportionality of their process.  (Proportionality may also be addressed under the relevant headings below where this fits  better).  Summary  conclusions  Firms should provide the summarised conclusions of their overall liquidity adequacy  review, stating how and whether they meet the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule (Internal  Liquidity Adequacy Assessment 2.1) and with regard to the additional guidance provid ed in  supervisory statement SS24/15, ‘The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding  risks’, under ‘Overall liquidity adequacy’.   Any shortcomings and remedial plans should be  discussed.  The firm should present its assessment of any additional liquidity it believes it should hold  on account of risks not captured in Pillar 1.  LCR and NSFR reporting  Major ind ic es   In this section, firms should discuss   the approach they have taken to major stock ind ic es of  third countries (referred to in   Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR)   Article 12 and   Liquidity (CRR)  Article 428ad) and how they have taken into consideration the views of relevant public  authorities for each major stock index (as referred to in paragraphs 2.35B and 2.44).  LCR reporting  HQLA   In this section, firms should discuss their approach to ensure compliance with the  Delegated Act overall. The following areas, where relevant, should receive particular  focus: the approach to implementation of Article 7, the operational requirements detai led  in Article 8, the work undertaken in response to Article 23, the approach to classification  of retail deposits specified in Articles 24 and 25 and classification of operational deposits  specified in Article 27.  Outflows  Inflows  NSFR reporting  Available Stable  Funding  In this section, firms should discuss their approach to ensure compliance with the NSFR.  The following areas, where relevant, should receive particular focus: the approach to  determining the residual maturity of a liability or of own funds as per   Liquidity (CRR)  Article 428j, the approach to determining the RSF factors for off balance - sheet exposures  as per   Liquidity (CRR)   Article 428p, the approach to determining the residual maturity of  assets as per   Liquidity (CRR)   Article 428q ,   an overview of items tha t are excluded from the  NSFR   including   derivative client clearing items to which the firm applies Liquidity (CRR)  Article 428da.  Required Stable  Funding  Liquidity Risk Assessment  Evaluation of  liquidity   needs in the  short and   medium  term  In this section, firms should describe their liquidity profile at appropriate time horizons out  to 12 months, the sources and uses on gross and net basis, and their activities undertaken  to cover such liquidity needs in both BAU and stress. The firm should   also   describe any  ways in which the LCR metric does not capture its liquidity risks within 30 days and how  that risk will be managed.   Where firms use long - term collateral swap transactions to  borrow liquid assets against non - liquid assets, firms should as sess the risk that the  counterparty seeks to terminate the transaction before it matures and the liquidity needs  that may arise from this.   For   further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines  2014/13, ‘Evaluation of liquidity needs in the short and medium term’, within   Title 8. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Detail  Evaluation of  intraday   risk  In this section, firms should describe how intraday risk is created within their business,  whether part of the payments system or not,   their appetite for and approach to managing  intraday liquidity risk of both cash and securities accounts and in both business as usual  and stress conditions. They should include the approach to stress testing and conclusions.  For further guidance, firms should refer to   the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of  intraday liquidity risk’ within Title 8, as well as additional ma terial contained within  SS24/15.  Evaluation of  liquidity   buffer and  counterbalancing  capacity  In this section, firms should describe the procedures for calculating, controlling and  monitoring the liquid assets buffer and   counterbalancing capacity, and their effectiveness  in different scenarios which should include those affecting the liquidity of the   assets and  counterbalancing capacity. The firm's use of pre - positioning at the Bank of England or any  other central bank should be   included. For further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA  Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of liquidity buffer and count erbalancing   capacity’ within  Title 8, as well as additional material contained within SS24/15, especially under  ‘Managing the HQLA buffer’ and   ‘Role of collateral pre - positioned for use in the Bank of  England's liquidity insurance facilities’.  Inherent funding risk assessment  Evaluation of   funding  risk strategy and  appetite  In this section, firms should describe the funding risk strategy and appetite, and the  profile, both the sources and uses on a gross and   net basis. For further guidance, firms  should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of the firm's funding profile’,  within   Title 8.  Evaluation of risks to  stability of the  funding   p rofile  In this section, firms should analyse the stability of the liabilities within the funding profile  and the circumstances in which they could   become unstable. This could include market  shifts including changes in collateral values, excessive maturity mismatch, inappropriate  levels of asset encumbrance, concentrations (including single or connected counterparties,  or currencies). For further guidance, firms   should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13  ‘Evaluation of the risks to the stability of the funding prof ile’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of market  access  In this section, firms should analyse market access and current or future threats to this  access, including the impact of any short - term liquidity stresses or negative news. For  further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation   of actual  market access’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of  expected   change in  funding risks   based  on firms ’   f unding  plan.  Refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13 Evaluation of expected change in funding risks based on  the firm's funding plan.  Risk management assessment (both liquidity and funding)  Assess risk strategy  and risk appetite  In this section, firms should describe the risk appetite and strategy, how they were  devised, approved, monitored and reported, and how they are communicated throughout  the firm. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Liquidit y risk  strategy and liquidity risk tolerance’ within Title 8.  Organisational  framework, policies  and procedures  In this section, firms should describe the governance and management arrangements  around the ILAAP including the involvement of the governing body. They should describe  also the risk framework overall and as it pertains to liquidity and funding risks, the  technical and staff resources. The approach to maintaining market access should be  included. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13,  ‘Organisational framework, policies and procedures’, within Title 8. SS24/15 also provides This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Detail  guidance on the involvement of the management body and proportionality of the  framework.  Risk identification,  measurement,  management,  monitoring and  reporting  In this section, firms should describe the framework and IT systems for identifying,  measuring, managing and monitoring and both internal and external reporting of liquidity  and funding risks, including intraday risk. The assumptions and methodologies ado pted  should be described. Key indicators should be evidenced and the internal information  flows described. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Risk  identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting’ within   Title 8.  SS24/15 provides further guidance on management involvement and proportionality of  the ILAAP process.  Firm’s liquidity  specific stress testing  In this section, firms should analyse the internal stress testing framework, including the  process and governance of and challenge to scenario design, derivation of assumptions  and design of sensitivity analysis, and the process of review and challenge and   relevance  to the risk appetite. The process by which the stress results are produced, and  incorporated into the risk framework and strategic planning, and the liquidity recovery  process should be scrutinised. The results and conclusions must be analysed , with  breakdown by each relevant risk driver. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA  Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Firm’s liquidity specific stress testing,’ within Title 8, as well as  SS24/15, under the heading ‘Stress testing’, where a more detailed de scription of the risk  drivers can be found.  Liquidity risk internal  control framework  In this section, firms should describe their internal limit and control framework, including  the limits and controls around liquid asset buffers, and the appropriateness of the limit  structure to the risk appetite. The transfer pricing framework should al so be described  here, for example how the methodology was developed, the process controlled,  monitored and reviewed, and the results cascaded throughout the firm to drive  behaviours and support performance measurement and business incentives. For further  guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Liquidity risk internal control  framework’, within Title 8. Some additional guidance can be found in SS24/15 under the  heading ‘Transfer pricing system’.  Liquidity contingency  plans  The PRA strongly encourages firms to combine their liquidity contingency plan (also known  as a contingency funding plan) and their recovery plan into one integrated document. If a  firm decides to maintain two different documents (as set out in paragraph 2. 40B of this  SS), then it should include in its ILAAP document its reasons for doing so.  Funding plans   Firms should provide the full funding plan to demonstrate how it will support the  projected business activities in both business as usual and stress, implementing any  required improvements in the funding profile and evidencing that the risk appetite and  ke y metrics will not be breached by the planned changes. Risks to the plan should be  discussed. Where a funding strategy is new, implementation procedures should be  detailed. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Funding  plans ’, within Title 8. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Appendix 2:   Suggested structure and content of an ILAAP document for  SDDTs  •   The ILAAP document must record a firm’s process for the identification, measurement,  management ,   and monitoring of liquidity and funding risks (the ILAAP) carried out in accordance  with the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   P art of the PRA Rulebook (ILAA rules). A key  purpose is to help a firm’s management body to approve the ILAAP and to conclude that Chapter  2 of the ILAA rules (Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule) is met. Firms should structure the document  with this purpose in   mind.  •   To that end, each   SDDT   and   SDDT   consolidation entity   is encouraged to produce a document  that is proportionate to the nature, scale ,   and complexity of its activities. It should be clear,  concise ,   and avoid   unnecessary duplication. Firms are not required to follow this template ,   and  should structure their ILAAP document in the way they consider   would   best deliver its purpose.  •   The PRA   considers   that   the   following template may help to cover the relevant information in an  ILAAP document in a concise fashion without unnecessary duplication.  •   In producing the ILAAP document, firms should also consider paragraphs 2.4 - 2. 6A   of this  Supervisory Statement .  Heading   Guidance  1. Overview   •   Describe the business model of the firm. This information can be the same as  that provided in other documents such as the ICAAP document or Recovery Plan.  -   Presentation of a current and forecast balance sheet would be helpful to  provide an overview of how the firm is funded and how the funding is used,  in broad product categories.  •   Describe material internal and external changes impacting the liquidity or funding  profile ,   or the risk management framework for liquidity and funding since the  ILAAP document was last approved.  2. Overall Liquidity  Adequacy Rule  (OLAR)   –   risk  strategy and  appetite  •   Present the risk strategy and appetite established for ensuring compliance with  OLAR.  -   The liquidity and funding risk strategy and appetite should capture any  elements of bespoke liquidity risk which are not captured well either in LCR  or in the Statement of Policy on Pillar 2 liquidity, bearing in mind that  compliance with LCR does not guar antee that OLAR is met.  •   Explain which quantified risk appetite(s) represents the firm’s binding constraint.  3. Stress testing This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  3.1. Framework   •   Explain the internal stress testing framework, including:  -   stress scenarios used;  -   how these were chosen and why they are considered appropriate;  -   how stress testing is linked to the risk appetite, including how the survival  horizon has been chosen and what the ‘point of failure’ is considered to be  (eg remaining liquid asset buffers or LCR falling below a certain level);   and  -   the process by which the stress testing results are produced, with what  frequency and timeliness.  3.2. Evaluation of  liquidity buffers  and  counterbalancing  capacity  •   Present a breakdown of the liquid asset buffers. This should include assets  considered to be liquid or committed facilities assumed to be drawable in stress  but which are not eligible as HQLA in LCR, if they meet the firm’s internal  definition of liquid as sets.  •   For non - cash liquid assets, describe the monetisation options for these assets  and how these are tested (note that reference to coverage of Article 8 in Section  4: ‘LCR and NSFR reporting’ below may be sufficient to avoid duplication).  •   Explain how the risk driver ‘marketable assets risk’ in Article 11.5 of the Internal  Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   P art of the PRA Rulebook is taken into account in  each stress scenario (for example, in haircut and monetisation timing  assumptions).  3.3. Evaluation of  liquidity risk and  funding risk  Purpose of this section  •   The purpose of this section is to identify the liquidity and funding risks the firm is  exposed to, set out how these are measured, managed ,   and monitored, and to  quantify them for the purpose of liquidity stress testing.  Presentation of risk assessment  •   Analysis should be limited to risk drivers that firms are exposed to, among those  set out in Article 11.5 of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   P art of the  PRA Rulebook and listed below, and risks related to asset encumbrance. Note  that:  -   no coverage is necessary for risk   drivers that are not relevant to the firm’s  business model; for example, a single - entity   SDDT   with a GBP - only balance  sheet will not need to assess cross - currency   funding risk or intragroup funding  risk; This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  -   certain risk drivers may be best discussed in the context of another risk driver  to avoid duplication; for example, risks arising from the correlation between  funding markets and risks arising from the firm’s funding tenors may be  discussed in the context   of the retail funding risk and/or wholesale secured  and unsecured funding risk drivers, without necessarily needing to be  separately discussed;  -   internalisation risk is assumed not to be relevant to   SDDTs   and has been  omitted from the list below;  -   funding risks resulting from estimates of future balance sheet growth are  assumed to be considered in the funding plan and have been omitted from  the list below;  -   marketable assets risk is covered in Section 3.2 and need not be covered in  this section; and  -   for relevant risk drivers, coverage should include an explanation of how the  risk has been captured in each stress scenario, such as setting out the  outflow/inflow factors that have been applied to relevant on and off - balance  sheet items.  (1)   Retail funding risk  •   Present deposit balances outstanding by product and customer type ,   and analyse  the likelihood and magnitude of run - off of each in stress, given the features of  the products and customers who hold them.  •   When presenting the analyses on the likelihood and magnitude of run - off, firms  should consider not only the factors considered in categorising deposits for the  LCR calculation, but also any bespoke risk factors that are relevant to their  specific product o r customer type.  (2)   Wholesale secured and unsecured funding risk  •   Present balances outstanding for wholesale secured and unsecured funding, by  product type, and analyse the likelihood and magnitude of run - off of each in  stress, taking account of features such as the level of creditor seniority, the type  of counterparty a nd the relationship they have with the firm, the type of  underlying collateral (if applicable) and the residual maturity.  (3)   Non - marketable assets risk This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  •   Explain if: assets that cannot be monetised immediately via repo or outright sale  are used, or could be used, to generate liquidity; and how the ability to use those  funding instruments may be affected in stress.  •   Explain the inflows received on non - marketable assets (eg repayments of  principal and interest) and analyse the potential impact on these inflows in  stress.  (4)   Off - balance sheet funding risk  •   Explain any exposures to off - balance sheet funding risk and how these are  monitored. These should include a list of committed and uncommitted lending  arrangements (eg facilities, undrawn loans and mortgages, overdrafts ,   and credit  cards), with total amounts that can be drawn down. Consideration should also be  given to the potential for new lending arrangements that would continue to be  generated after the onset of the stress scenarios. Explain how any derivative or  repo   transactions would require additional   cash outflow (eg additional margin).  •   Any analysis of historical drawdown/outflow rates should be presented, and how  this analysis is used to determine drawdown/outflow rates in stress should be  explained.  (5)   Cross currency funding risk  •   If there are material exposures to non - GBP currencies, describe the overall  approach to cross currency funding risk explaining: the sources and uses of non -  GBP exposure; the firm’s risk appetite, limits and monitoring framework for  currency mismatch; and h ow any breaches would be managed.  •   Discuss the approach to the use of FX swaps, and assess exposures to cross  currency funding risk in the event of disruption to the FX swaps market.  (6)   Risks arising from the correlation between funding markets and lack of  diversification between funding types  •   Assess any concentration risks from factors such as product or instrument type,  market, currency, customer type ,   or counterparty.  (7)   Risks arising from the firm’s funding tenors  •   Assess any vulnerabilities to liabilities resulting from their term structure   –   such  as maturity concentrations   –   that might materialise due to external or internal  events or contractual events (including where the funding provider has call  options).  (8)   Franchise risk This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  •   Assess any implicit liquidity requirements arising from a need to fulfil non -  contractual expectations to, for example: acquire assets; roll over or buy back  assets; permit premature termination of retail term/notice deposits; permit  premature termination o f non - margined derivative exposures; or  extend/maintain other forms of liquidity support.  (9)   Risks related to asset encumbrance  •   Assess whether levels of asset encumbrance have potential to make the funding  profile unstable, having regard to the risks outlined in paragraph 2.17C of this  Supervisory Statement (SS24/15). Such assessment should make reference to any  metrics and limits   used to monitor or constrain asset encumbrance as outlined in  paragraph 2.17D.  (10)   Risks associated with a deterioration of a firm’s credit rating  •   If rated by an external credit rating agency, assess the outflows that would result  from credit downgrades, the types of collateral which may be required, and the  speed of outflow where appropriate.  (11)   Risk that liquidity resources cannot be transferred across entities, sectors and  countries  •   Only where relevant, explain how intragroup funding arrangements could create  any liquidity risk.  (12)   Intra - day risk  •   Summarise payment and settlement activities and assess to what extent this  creates intra - day risk. This should include:  -   w hat payment schemes the firm accesses and how;  -   w hat the payment flows are across these payment schemes and how these are  funded; and  -   w hat the risk management framework is for payment and settlement activity,  including how payment flows are controlled, any limits or risk appetite metrics  used and how these are monitored.  •   Explain how intra - day risk is quantified for each stress scenario, either:  -   following one of the methods set out in the Statement of Policy on Pillar 2  liquidity; or  -   using an alternative (potentially simpler) method that sets out and justifies the  amount of liquidity held for intra - day risk in each stress scenario. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  3.4. Stress testing  output  •   Present the output of stress testing for each stress scenario; this may be  presented both:  -   in the form of a table showing:  (i) starting liquid asset buffers gross and net of any assumed haircuts;  (ii) for key outflow and inflow components: balances and (where relevant) off -  balance sheet exposures; outflow/inflow factors; and cash flows across the  survival horizon that is, or is used to calibrate, the firm’s liquidity risk appetite;  (iii) the inflows/reduction in outflows resulting from any management actions;  and  (iv) remaining liquid asset buffers at the end of the survival horizon.  Illustrative example:  -   in the form of a graph plotting remaining liquid asset buffers on the y axis and  time on the x axis; this would show   –   for at least the survival horizon that is, or is  used to calibrate, the firm’s liquidity risk appetite   –   the changing level of the  firm ’s liquid asset buffers as these are impacted by stressed cash flows; this  should enable assessment of any low - point and cliff risk and demonstrate  whether their liquid asset buffers are sufficient to cover for the largest net cash  outflow positions in the   survival horizon. i   ii   iii=i x ii   iv  Initial balance  Haircut /  Outflow/inflow  factor**  Post haircut  value /  Outflow /  Inflow at the  end of survival  horizon  Position at low  point (if earlier  than Day X)  Day X   Day Y  Liquid asset buffer (LAB) Cash Non-cash HQLA* Other* A   Total Outflows (cumulative) Retail funding* Wholesale funding* Off-balance sheet* Other (e.g. intraday)* B   Total Inflows (cumulative) Loans* Other* C   Total D=A-B+C   Remaining LAB pre management actions  E Management actions F=D+E   Remaining LAB post management actions  * NB firms should provide appropriate levels of granularity.  ** NB this column should summarise the outflow/inflow factors set across the survival horizon. Firms should describe the detailed outflow/inflow assumptions in Section 3.3. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  Illustrative example:  •   Explain whether and how OLAR (as per Section 2 above) is met, referencing the  stress testing output above. Where relevant, comment on the impact of the stress  scenarios on other risk appetite metrics such as asset encumbrance.  •   Present any sensitivity analysis of key stress testing assumptions that has been  undertaken (e.g. through reverse stress testing) and consider whether such  sensitivity analysis is plausible.  4. LCR and NSFR  reporting  •   Discuss the approach to compliance with the PRA Rulebook   P arts on Liquidity  Coverage Ratio (CRR) and, if applicable, Liquidity (CRR) on the Net Stable Funding  Ratio.  •   The following areas, where relevant, should receive particular focus:  Liquidity Coverage Ratio (CRR)   Part of the PRA Rulebook :  •   Article 8: explain the framework for testing the ability to monetise liquid assets,  referencing Article 8.  •   Article 23: explain how Article 23 is applied, particularly with regard to undrawn  loans such as mortgages, credit cards and overdrafts.  •   Articles 24 and 25: explain how Articles 24 and 25 are applied to classify retail  deposits. If non - natural persons are treated as retail depositors (e . g .   SMEs),  explain how it is determined that they are retail rather than wholesale  depositors. -15  -10  -5  0  5  10  15  20  25  30  35  40  0   5   10   15   20   25   30   35   40   45   50  Starting liquid  asset buffers  (LAB)  Remaining LAB  post management  actions  Remaining LAB  pre management  actions  Low point = Day Y  Point of failure  = Day X  Management action  triggered   = Day Z  LAB  Days  NB:   The graph above is for illustrative purpose only and should not be used for  determining the firm's point of taking management action or survival horizon. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  •   Article 27: explain how Article 27 is applied to classify operational deposits.  5. Liquidity and funding risk management framework  5.1 Organisational  framework,  policies ,   and  procedures  •   Describe the following. Where possible, avoid coverage of the overall risk  management framework or other risk types (eg credit, market or operational  risk) where this does not relate to the management of liquidity and funding risks.  -   policies, processes and procedures in place to manage liquidity and funding  risks;  -   governance arrangements (how the management body and senior  management are involved in the risk management framework);  -   the risk appetite and limit structure;  -   the organisational structure (including whether a three lines of defence  model is followed, and, if so, how this is used to manage liquidity and funding  risks).  •   Firms should also describe how the risk appetite and strategy are devised,  approved,   monitored,   and reported, and how they are communicated  throughout the firm.  5.2 Risk  identification,  measurement,  monitoring ,   and  reporting  •   Summarise the framework for measuring and monitoring liquidity and funding  risks through internal and external reporting by setting out the following. This  section should be simple and concise.  -   a complete list of all liquidity risk metrics monitored and any other  management information (MI) reported in business as usual;  -   the frequency and timeliness with which they are produced;  -   whether the firm is able to produce ad - hoc MI specific to a stressed part of  the portfolio if a stress occurs;  -   teams responsible for producing the MI;  -   who receives the MI;  -   the IT systems used in MI production; and  -   the escalation process in the event of a limit breach.  6. Other materials   In order to avoid the need to summarise the following documents in the ILAAP  document, firms are encouraged to include the following documents directly as part  of their ILAAP document. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Heading   Guidance  6.1 Contingency  plans  •   The liquidity contingency plan, or the recovery plan if the liquidity contingency  plan is integrated with the recovery plan.  6.2 Funding plans   •   The full funding plan (or if not formalised in a document, a summary of how  projected business activities will be funded in both business as usual and stress).  6.3 Funds transfer  pricing policy  •   The full funds transfer pricing policy (or if not formalised in a policy document, a  summary of how Chapter 6 of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   P art of  the PRA Rulebook is met).  6.4 Minutes  related to ILAAP  document  •   Minutes from governance committees where final or near - final versions of the  ILAAP were recommended for approval or approved. This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement

Appendix   3 : Glossary   of   Abbreviations  BIPRU 12   Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building   Societies and Investment Firms   —   Chapter  12,   Liquidity Standards  CRR   Capital Requirements Regulation  CRD   C apital Requirements Directive  EBA   European Banking Authority  HQLA   High Quality Liquid Assets  ILAA   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment  ILAAP   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   Process  ILG   Individual Liquidity Guidance  ILSA   Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment  L - SREP   Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation   Process  LCR   Liquidity Coverage   Ratio  NSFR   Net Stable Funding Ratio  OLAR   Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule  SDDT   Small Domestic Deposit Taker  SREP   Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process This document was published as part of PS4/26. Please see: www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/the-strong-and-simple-framework-final-policy-statement


