---
title: "SS2415/ – Ss2415 Update March 2020"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2020/ss2415-update-march-2020.pdf"
---

# SS2415/ – Ss2415 Update March 2020

Supervisory Statement |   24/15  The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks  March   2020  ( U pd ating   June   2019 ) SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Supervisory Statement   |   24/15  The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks  March   2020  (Updating   June   2019 )  ©   Bank of England 2020  Prudential Regulation Authority   |   20 Moorgate   |   London EC2R 6DA SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Contents  Introduction   1  The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process   2  The Liquidity Supervisory Review and   Evaluation Process (L - SREP)   10  Drawing down liquid asset buffers   12  Co llateral placed at the Bank of England   12  Reporting   13  Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance   14  Appendices   16  Annex: Changes to SS24/15   20 SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Introduction  This supervisory statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) approach to  supervising   liquidity and funding risks. It is add ressed to firms to which CRD IV 1   applies.  The statement should be read alongside the ‘Internal Liquidity Adequac y Assessment’ part of the  PRA Rulebook (ILAA rules), the ‘Liquidity Coverage Requirement   —   UK Designated Investment Firms’  part of the PRA Rulebook; the PRA’s approach to banking supervision; 2   Part Six (Liquidity) of the  Capital Requirements Regulation (CR R) and the European Commission Delegated Act with regards to  the liquidity coverage requirement (LCR) for credit institutions (‘Delegated Act’). 3   The PRA’s  approach is informed by the European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) guidelines for common  procedures an d methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP). 4   The PRA  expects firms to have regard to the detail contained in Titles 8 and 9 of the EBA SREP Guidelines to  understand the PRA’s expectations of them in respect of liquidity and fu nding risk management and  control.  The Delegated Act specifies in detail the LCR provided for in CRR Article 412 and is directly  applicable in the United Kingdom. It took effect from 1 October 2015. The Delegated Act only applies  to credit institutions. PR A - designated investment firms must comply with the obligations laid down in  the Delegated Act as they apply to credit institutions, by   virtue of rule 2.1 of the ‘LCR   —   UK  designated   investment firms’ Part of the PRA Rulebook. They should read references in   this  statement to the Delegated Act accordingly.  The PRA is required under CRD IV to apply the Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation  Process (L - SREP) and any supervisory measures in accordance with the level of application of the  requirements set ou t in the CRD IV framework. Therefore, the ILAA rules, including the requirement  to carry out an Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP), apply on an individual basis  and on a consolidated basis where firms must comply with Part Six (Liquidit y) of the CRR on a  consolidated basis. This enables the PRA to apply the L - SREP and any supervisory measures at both  individual and consolidated level, where appropriate.  This statement is structured as follows:     Section 2: The Internal Liquidity Adequacy A ssessment Process.     Section 3: The Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process.     Section 4: Drawing down Liquid Asset Buffers.     Section 5: Collateral placed at the Bank of England.     Section 6: Reporting.  1   CRD IV implements the international regulatory framework for banks know as Basel 3 in Europe. The legislation comprises two  instruments: the Capital Requirements Regulation (575/2013) (CRR) and the Capital Requirements Directive (2013/36/EU)(CRD),  jointly   known as ‘CRD IV’.(2) .  2   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/supervision .  3   European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 of 10 October 2014 to   supplement Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the  European Parliament and the Council with regard to liquidity coverage requirement for Credit Institutions.  4   European Banking Authority: ‘Guidelines for common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory   review and evaluation  process (SREP)’, available at   https://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation - and - policy/supervisory - review - and - evaluation - srep - and - pillar -  2/guidelines - for - common - procedures - and - methodologies - for - the - supervisory - review - and - evaluation - process - srep - . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   Process  The ILAA rules require firms to identify, measure, manage and monitor liquidity and funding risks  across different time horizons and stress scenarios, consistent with the risk appetite established by  the firm’s management body. A firm must carry ou t an ILAAP in accordance with the ILAA rules, and  the ILAAP should be proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s activities as set  out in Chapter 13 of the ILAA rules.  An ILAAP document sets out a firm’s approach to liquidity and fundi ng. It should be updated  annually, or more frequently if changes in the business, strategy, nature or scale of its activities or  operational environment suggest that the current level of liquid resources or the firm’s funding  profile is no longer adequate.  ILAAP governance  The PRA expects the ILAAP to be the responsibility of a firm’s management body. 5   The ILAAP  document must be approved by the management body and be consistent with the risk appetite set  by the management body. It also must be consistent wi th the firm’s approach for measuring and  managing liquidity and funding risks. The management body is also expected to ensure that the  ILAAP is well integrated into management processes and the firm’s decision - making culture.  Producing an ILAAP document  As   a general guide, the PRA expects that the ILAAP document which supports its liquidity review  and evaluation process is in line with the EBA guidelines on common procedures and methodologies  for SREP 6   and aligns with the further guidance in this supervisor y statement. The PRA has provided a  template in Appendix 1 as a guide for firms when producing their ILAAP documents.  The PRA recognises that for small firms with simple business models it may not be necessary to  follow the template, or   all   elements in the   template, provided all the key aspects are covered. This  approach is consistent with the PRA’s secondary competition objective. The PRA expects the  document to be firm specific, not prepared in a formulaic manner, and to reflect the applicable  business mo del. The PRA is equally sceptical of overly large, unwieldy documents as it is of  documents providing too little detail.  Firms should refer to Title 5 of the EBA SREP guidelines when assessing the soundness,  effectiveness and comprehensiveness of their   ILA AP   document. In particular, the PRA expects a firm  to demonstrate in its ILAAP document that it complies with the expectations outlined in the rest of  this chapter.  Transition from ILAA/ILSA to ILAAP  Most firms that were subject to Chapter 12 of the Pruden tial Sourcebook for Banks, Building  Societies and Investment Firms (BIPRU 12) will have produced ILAA or an Individual Liquidity Systems  Assessment (ILSA) document. The following guidance is intended to assist those firms in producing  their ILAAP document.  Where ILAA or ILSA documents were fit for purpose under BIPRU 12, the PRA expects that they  broadly align with the requirements of an ILAAP document, with some exceptions. A key exception is  that firms will need to conduct an ILAAP on an individual basis   and on a consolidated basis where  firms need to comply with the LCR on that basis. The PRA expects firms which will comply with the  5   As defined in the Glossary   section of the PRA Rulebook,   http://media.fshandbook.info/Handbook/Glossaryv7_PRA_20150402.pdf .  6   https://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/935249/EBA - GL - 2014 -  13+%28Guidelines+on+SREP+methodologies+and+processes%29.pdf . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

ILAA rules on an individual and on a consolidated basis to only produce one ILAAP document which  should address the requirem ents at both individual and consolidated level.  There is also a greater focus in the ILAAP on whether firms have adequate stable funding over  the medium to long term as distinct from liquidity risk which focuses on firms’ ability to meet their  obligations   in the short term. This may need to be reflected in the updated document.  Firms should also consider carefully the appropriateness of the liquid assets held, even where  they are compliant with the Delegated Act, given that the Delegated Act permits a far w ider range of  eligible liquid assets than is eligible under BIPRU 12.  Firms do not need to transition their ILAA document to an ILAAP document immediately. The  PRA would expect ILAAP documents to be updated and   approved   by the management body at the  latest at the firm’s next annual ILAAP review date. The PRA expects that all firms will have a  management body approved ILAAP document, replacing their existing ILAA or ILSA, by the end of  October 2016.  An overview of how the   firm applies the Delegated Act in its LCR reporting may also be  appropriate, including, if relevant, how the firm has interpreted the classifications of retail and  operational deposits and the work undertaken annually in response to Delegated Act Article   23.  Overall liquidity adequacy  A key purpose of the ILAAP is to document and demonstrate overall liquidity adequacy. The  PRA’s approach to liquidity supervision is based on the principle that a firm must have adequate  levels of liquidity resources and a pr udent funding profile, and that it comprehensively manages and  controls liquidity and funding risks.  The firm itself is responsible for the effective management of its liquidity and funding risks. This  overarching principle is set out in the overall liquid ity adequacy rule (OLAR) in Chapter 2 of the ILAA  rules, and supplemented by Chapter 3 of the ILAA rules on overall strategies, processes and systems.  As part of the ILAAP, a firm should undertake a regular assessment of the adequacy of its  liquidity resou rces to cover its liabilities as they fall due in stressed conditions. Central to this process  is an appropriate and clearly articulated risk appetite statement defining the duration and type of  stress or stresses that the firm aims to survive. This risk a ppetite should be cascaded throughout the  firm in the form of appropriate limits, which may include gap limits or concentration limits around  currency, funding sources, the makeup of liquid asset buffers and the firm’s structural liquidity  position. The PR A also expects firms to articulate for themselves the amount of risk they are willing  to take across different business lines to achieve their strategic objectives. This risk appetite should  be consistent with the PRA’s duty to advance its general objectiv e of promoting the safety and  soundness of firms. 7  For the purposes of the OLAR, liquidity resources are not confined to the amount or value of a  firm’s marketable, or otherwise realisable, assets. Rather, in assessing the adequacy of those  resources, a fi rm should have regard to the overall nature of the liquidity resources available to it,  which enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  The LCR is distinct from and does not replace the concept of overall liquidity adequacy. The LCR  is a set of rules applying to all firms and therefore could fail to capture firm - specific risks. The LCR  also does not capture any of the qualitative   arrangeme nts that the PRA requires a firm to implement  7   See also, ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to banking supervision’, June 2014;   available at:  https://www.bankofengland.co .uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/pra - approach - documents - 2018 . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

to ensure compliance with the OLAR. It follows that a firm cannot rely solely on meeting the LCR  and/or LCR and Pillar 2 guidance   in order to satisfy the OLAR.  Stress testing  Comprehensive, robust stress testi ng is vital to ensure compliance with the OLAR. The PRA  expects firms to consider in their stress testing the impact of a range of severe but plausible stress  scenarios on their cash flows, liquidity resources, profitability, solvency, asset encumbrance an d  survival horizon. Stress scenarios should be selected to reveal the vulnerabilities of the firm’s  funding, including for example, a vulnerability to previously liquid markets becoming unexpectedly  illiquid. Stress testing scenarios should include a macro economic stress. The PRA expects the degree  of conservatism of the scenarios and assumptions to be discussed in the ILAAP document.  The PRA expects , in line with paragraph 3.12,   firms to consider the lowest point of cumulative  stressed net cashflows both w ithin the 30 - day LCR horizon and within the context of survival days  along the horizon of their own risk appetite. Daily granularity is necessary for this analysis.  In analysing the key risk drivers set out in Chapter 11 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects   firms to  make appropriate assumptions, both quantitative and qualitative. In particular, firms should include  the following assumptions, discussed in detail in the EBA SREP Guidelines, where appropriate (the  PRA’s presumption is that these are consistent w ith existing internal liquidity management policies  adopted by firms).  (i)   The run - off of retail funding  This includes an assessment of the likely run - off of different components of the retail book,  taking into account common features such as guarantee cover,   maturity, interest rate  sensitivity, customer type, product type, deposit size, or the channel through which the  deposits were affected.  (ii)   The reduction of secured and unsecured wholesale funding  This includes an assessment of the type and geographical loca tion of the counterparty, the  level of creditor seniority, the nature of the relationship the firm has with the counterparty, the  type of underlying collateral (if applicable), and the speed of outflow. The risk of shortening  tenors should also be assessed .  (iii)   The correlation and concentration of funding  Firms should include an assessment that takes into account instrument type, markets,  currency, liability term structure,   counterparty and market access, as   appropriate. A firm  should also consider the   effectiveness of its diversification strategy.  (iv)   Additional contingent off - balance sheet exposures  Firms should include, where appropriate, an assessment of derivative cash flows caused by  maturity, exercise, repricing, margin calls, a change in the value o f posted collateral, collateral  substitution, sleeper collateral, and volatile market conditions. Firms should also consider  funding commitments (facilities, undrawn loans and mortgages, overdrafts and credit cards),  guarantees and trade finance contracts,   as well as facilities to support securitisation vehicles,  including sponsored and third - party structures.  (v)   Funding tenors  Firms should consider vulnerabilities within the term structure due to external, internal or  contractual events (where the funding pr ovider has call options).  (vi)   The impact of a deterioration in the firm’s credit rating  Firms should consider all types of contractual and behavioural outflows resulting from credit  downgrades of varying magnitude, the types of collateral which may be require d and the speed  of outflow where appropriate. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

(vii)   Foreign exchange convertibility and access to foreign exchange markets  Firms should calculate stressed outflows by individual currency and tenor where appropriate.  This information must support an assessment   of how shortfalls can be funded in a stressed  market with impaired access to foreign exchange markets and loss of convertibility.  (viii) The ability to transfer liquidity across entities, sectors and countries  Firms should assess the intragroup support assumed a vailable in stress, or the impact of a  failure of a group entity to repay loans in a timely manner, where appropriate. This assessment  should include considering existing legal, regulatory and operational limitations to potential  transfers of liquidity and   unencumbered assets amongst entities, business lines, countries and  currencies.   Firms should detail information on their approach for measuring and managing  intragroup liquidity risk and develop their own assessment of the risk of contingent trapped  liqui dity, on an individual, sub - consolidated (where applicable) and consolidated level. Firms  should consider the likely implications of these risks in their stress scenarios and discuss the  degree of conservatism and assumptions applied.  (ix)   Estimates of future b alance sheet growth  This should include considering how planned or forecast balance sheets may behave in stress  and whether the firm’s risk appetite would be breached.  (x)   The impact on a firm’s reputation or franchise  Firms should include an assessment of i mplicit liquidity requirements arising from a need to  fulfil expectations to acquire assets, rollover or buy back assets, to extend or maintain other  forms of liquidity support, or to permit premature termination of retail term or notice liabilities  or der ivative exposures for reputational reasons or to protect the franchise, as appropriate.  Firms should also bear in mind that responses to a liquidity stress cannot include actions that  would significantly damage their franchise.  In addition, the PRA also ex pects firms to consider the quantitative and qualitative assumptions  for the following risk drivers which are not explicitly addressed in the EBA SREP Guidelines, where  appropriate:  (i)   Marketable asset risk  Firms should include a consideration of how factors   affecting their ability to liquidate assets or  monetise them through sale or repurchase agreements may change in stress. This should  include market access, haircuts, timelines, pricing, operational capacity or eligibility.  (ii)   Non - marketable asset risk  The PRA   defines non - marketable assets as being those assets which cannot be monetised via  repo or immediate outright sale. They could be monetised, for example, via the securitisation  market or as covered bonds. Firms should include an assessment of how factors a ffecting the  liquidity of those assets (eg counterparty stress, whether market access is frequent and  established, early amortisation triggers, or financing of warehoused assets) may change under  stress.  (iii)   Internalisation risk  Internalisation risk occurs whe re firm or customer long positions are funded using the  proceeds from customer short trades. When clients close out their short positions and these  arrangements unwind, this may generate substantial liquidity outflows. Internalisation and  netting efficienc ies within synthetic prime brokerage also give rise to liquidity risk. Firms should  include an assessment of these risks.  Consistent with Chapter 11 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects the results of the stress testing  exercise to be presented to the firm’s   management body on a regular basis.  Intraday liquidity risk management  A further risk driver where the PRA expects firms to make appropriate assumptions is intraday  liquidity risk. This is the risk that a firm is unable to meet its daily settlement obliga tions, for example, SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

as a result of timing mismatches arising from direct and indirect membership of relevant payment or  security settlement systems. Firms should ensure that they have sufficient liquidity at all times to  maintain normal payment activity if :     incoming payments are delayed by several hours or until close to the payment cut off times;     credit lines are withdrawn and/or require full collateralisation; or     large individual clients default on their payments.  The PRA assesses that intraday liquidity   risk exposures are material for firms and firms are  therefore expected to demonstrate robust analysis of their intraday liquidity risk profile both in  business - as - usual and under stress scenarios.  2.24A   All direct participants in payment and securities se ttlement systems should be able to  calculate their maximum net debit position for each respective system in which they participate.  Indirect participants that are currently unable to calculate their maximum net debit position are  encouraged to engage with   their correspondent   bank(s), with the aim of improving the granularity  and timeliness of payment settlement data to enable them to do this . The PRA will be proportionate  in its expectations on the ability of indirect participants to be able to do this for   all markets.  Managing the High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) buffer  As part of their ILAAP, and within OLAR, firms should assess their ability to convert their buffers  of liquid assets into cash in a short timeframe. The PRA would expect firms to set a risk   appetite and  framework which will govern the management and monitoring of their liquid asset portfolio. This  includes having appropriate internal limits and controls to ensure that the ability to monetise HQLAs  in stress is not limited in any way.  Some of   the risk drivers identified above inform the assessment of firms’ ability to monetise  their buffers. These include ‘marketable asset risk’, ‘foreign exchange convertibility and access to  foreign exchange markets’ and ‘the ability to transfer liquidity acr oss entities, sectors and countries’.  Related to consideration of these risk drivers, the operational requirements in Delegated Act Article 8  also establish key principles which firms should observe.  This section highlights certain factors which the PRA re gards as particularly important if firms  are to demonstrate their ability to monetise their buffers on an appropriate timescale.  Testing the ability to monetise  Delegated Act Article 8(4) requires firms to regularly monetise a sufficiently representative  s ample of their holdings of HQLA (with the exception of certain asset classes). The PRA’s expectations  of firms’ compliance with this requirement will be proportionate, taking into account the firm’s  business model.  Firms are also reminded of the obligation in of Delegated Act Article 8(2) to have ready access  to their holdings of HQLAs and to ensure that there are no legal or operational restrictions to  monetising HQLAs at any time during the   30 calendar day stress p eriod. In particular, while  accounting classifications remain decisions for firms, where firms hold HQLAs in the held - to - maturity  portfolio, they should be able to demonstrate that this does not create barriers to their ability to  monetise these assets.  Ca shflow mismatch risk (CFMR) monetisation assumptions  2.29A   From the date   firms first report   PRA110, the PRA expects f irms to assess, at least annually in  their ILAAP, the speed with which they expect to be able to monetise different types of non - cash  HQLA , on a daily basis, through repo markets and outright sales in times of stress. Firms should take SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

into account relevant factors such as market depth, number of regular counterparties, the firm’s  individual turnover and incremental market access in stress,   the need to rollover short - term repo  transactions and settlement times etc. Firms should also consider the extent to which their ability to  monetise HQLA through outright sale could be adversely affected by the accounting classification, in  particular whe re sale of the asset would crystallise a loss that arises because of the difference  between the fair value at the point of sale and the carry value in the firm’s accounts. Firms should  provide evidence of the data used for their assessments in their ILAAPs . Firms should not include  public liquidity insurance as a non - cash HQLA monetisation channel in this assessment. This enables  the PRA to monitor firms’ resilience to different stresses using self - insurance alone. The monetisation  profile will not be inclu ded in the granular LCR stress scenario for the purposes of assessing  compliance with the guidance outlined in paragraph 3.12.  2.29B   Firms should use their assessments to apply daily monetisation limits to their stock of  different types of non - cash HQLA a vailable at the reporting date, in the CFMR framework. The  monetisation profiles should be computed on a consolidated currency level as well as in each  significant currency. Firms will report the resulting monetisation profiles in PRA110 . 8  Diversification   of assets  Delegated Act Article 8(1) requires firms to have in place appropriate internal limits and  controls to ensure that they appropriately diversify their HQLA buffer. This should be sufficient to  demonstrate that their ability to monetise HQLAs in a   short timeframe without significant loss of  value is not compromised by exposure to a common risk factor. In addition, the PRA expects larger  firms to take into account the absolute size of their HQLA holdings and to be able to monetise these  without compr omising on either speed of disposal or price. They should also consider the impact of  their actions on the wider market and on financial stability.  Firms should have due regard to their own business model when determining the appropriate  level of diversifi cation in their buffer. In particular, they should consider the risk that a particular  asset holding becomes illiquid just when the firm itself needs to draw down its buffer, for example,  because both the firm and the asset are exposed to a common risk fac tor. Conversely, they should  also consider whether their choice of assets is appropriate given their ability to manage properly the  risk in those assets, and to access the relevant repo or sale market.  In accordance with Delegated Act Article 8(1) the PRA   may set requirements on a firm to  enforce increased diversification of the HQLA buffer, or conversely to restrict holdings of particular  asset classes. This may include requirements on a firm’s liquidity management practices or  investment policies. Under C RD Article 103, the PRA may also restrict holdings of particular asset  classes if it observes that this exposes several firms to a common set of risk factors.  Currency mismatch (see also risk driver vii)  Currency conversion is an additional step between mo netising HQLA and using HQLA to meet  specific outflows. Therefore, firms should have appropriate policies and controls to manage the risk  that the currency denomination of assets is an obstacle to using their assets when meeting outflows  in a specific curr ency in stress.  The PRA reminds firms that Delegated Act Article 8(6) gives the PRA, as the competent  authority, the option to restrict currency mismatches. It can do so by setting limits on the proportion  of currency - specific net stressed outflows that ca n be met by holding HQLAs not denominated in that  currency. The PRA may apply this discretion through a range of firm - specific measures, including  setting the LCR by currency on significant currencies (therefore including the reporting currency).  8   PRA110 is available on the Regulatory reporting   –   banking sector section of the Bank of England’s website:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/regulatory - reporting/regulatory - reporting - banking - sector . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Transfera bility of funds (see also risk driver viii)  With regard to the risk that, in severely stressed circumstances, liquidity might not be freely  transferable between and within group entities, across national borders, as well as between  currencies, the PRA expe cts firms to demonstrate that the assumptions they make are realistic.  Further to PRA Rulebook Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Rule 8, firms should include  detailed information, at all relevant levels of application of liquidity requirements, in the ir ILAAPs, on:  (a) The distribution of outflows, inflows and liquid assets by location, with a breakdown by all  significant currencies, as determined under the CRR. 1  (b) The distinction between intragroup and external inflows;  (c) Where liquid assets are not aligned to net outflows by currency or by location, a consideration of  how liquid assets located elsewhere in the group may be immediately available, with particular  emphasis on:  (i) the ease with which liquid assets can be   moved across legal entities and jurisdictions  (including within the same legal entity, for example between a firm’s overseas branch and a  firm’s head office);  (ii) the ease with which liquid assets can be moved across different time zones;  (iii) the eas e with which liquid assets can be transferred from one currency into another  (including the operational ease of monetisation);  (iv) the potential consequences of moving liquid assets across different legal entities and  jurisdictions; and  (v) the entities , decision - making bodies and processes involved in the control of the  movement of these liquid assets, and the potential impact on the immediate availability of  those liquid assets.  (d) Where outflows at an individual (or sub - group) level are significantl y covered by intragroup  inflows, a consideration of the impact of stress on intragroup inflows.  2.35AA Under the Senior Managers Regime (SMR), 2   firms are required to allocate a Prescribed  Responsibility (PR) for managing the allocation and maintenance of   the firm’s capital, funding and  liquidity to an individual performing a Senior Management Function (SMF). 3   The PRA expects:     the SMF allocated this PR to ensure that the firm conducts the assessment specified in  paragraph 2.35, and to document it in the   firm’s ILAAP submissions; and     firms to ensure this expectation is explicitly reflected in the relevant SMF’s Statement of  Responsibilities.  Eligibility of reserves held at the Bank of England  2.35A   Delegated Act Article 10(1)(b)(iii) requires the cond itions for withdrawal of central bank  reserves to be specified in an agreement between the relevant competent authority and the central  bank in order for such reserves to be eligible as Level 1 HQLA. An agreement between the PRA, as  competent authority, an d the Bank of England, acting in its capacity as the central bank, states that:  ‘All reserves held in firms’ primary reserve accounts, and in their reserve collateralisation accounts  that are in excess of the minima required to pre - fund deferred net settl ement payment systems, are SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

withdrawable in times of stress. This is without prejudice to the Bank of England’s ability to set a  minimum balance on a reserve account. Reserves subject to a minimum balance would not be  withdrawable up to the amount of the mi nimum balance. In the event that the Bank of England set  a minimum balance it would, other than in exceptional circumstances (for example in response to a  Court order), notify the account holder.’  Eligibility of shares  2.35B   For the purposes of Delegated   Act Article 12(1)(c)(i), the PRA has identified the Financial  Times Stock Exchange 100 (FTSE 100) as a major stock index for the United Kingdom.  Eligibility of non - interest bearing assets, including sukuk 9  Delegated Act Article 12(1)(f) allows firms to in clude in their liquidity buffer non - interest  bearing assets which do not otherwise meet the minimum rating criteria, provided these assets meet  other specified criteria and if these firms are unable for reasons of religious observance to hold  interest - bear ing assets, in accordance with their statutes of incorporation. The PRA expects that this  provision will apply only to firms whose entire operations are structured and conducted in  accordance with Islamic commercial jurisprudence and its investment princip les. However, firms  should satisfy themselves that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers.  These firms may also benefit from the derogation available under of Delegated Act Article 12(3)  which allows competent authorities to disapply   two specific criteria that determine the eligibility of  corporate debt securities for inclusion in a firm’s Level 2B HQLA buffer: these two criteria are the  minimum issue size and maximum time to maturity. The PRA expects that a number of sukuk will  meet   the conditions that allow the PRA to exercise this discretion. Firms that consider they would be  eligible to benefit from these derogations should apply to the PRA for a permission.  Delegated Act Article 7(6) requires firms to assess whether a trading venu e provides for an  active and sizeable market, in order to confirm that assets that are not listed on recognised  exchanges are tradable via outright sale. In particular, firms are required to take into account the  minimum criteria specified in Delegated Act   Article 7(6)(a) and (b) when making this assessment. The  PRA acknowledges that firms will need to exercise judgement in deciding whether these criteria are  met in relation to specific assets, including sukuk. It is the responsibility of firms to satisfy t hemselves  that their assets are eligible for inclusion in their HQLA buffers. Firms should contact their PRA  supervisor if, after completing their assessment, they are still unsure whether their assets meet the  requirement stated in the Delegated Act.  When   considering the option of restricting currency mismatches under Delegated Act Article 8,  the PRA will take into account all relevant considerations: this will include considerations relevant to  firms that, for reasons of religious observance, are unable t o hold interest - bearing assets.  Liquidity contingency plan  Chapter 12 of the ILAA rules sets out the requirements a firm needs to meet in relation to its  liquidity contingency plan. In addition, the PRA requires firms to prepare a recovery plan under the  Recovery Plans part of the PRA Rulebook. To the extent that the broader recovery plan addresses the  requirements for liquidity contingency plans, firms do not have to develop a separate liquidity  contingency plan. However, regardless of whether this is add ressed in the liquidity contingency plan,  or in the broader recovery plan, firms’ arrangements must be cross - referenced, where appropriate,  in the ILAAP document. These arrangements should also be informed by the results of firms’ liquidity  stress testing.   The PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its review of firms’ liquidity  management.  9   Certificates of equal value representing an undivided interest in the ownership of specified   assets or investments acquired or to be  acquired and that comply with Islamic commercial jurisprudence and its investment principles, but excluding shares. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Transfer pricing  As part of their compliance with Chapter 6 of the ILAA rules, the PRA expects firms to ensure  that liquidity and funding costs, benefits an d risks are fully incorporated into firms’ product pricing,  performance measurement and incentives, and new product and transaction approval processes. All  significant business lines should be included, whether on or off - balance sheet. Both stressed and  bu siness - as - usual costs should be assessed. The process should be transparent and understood by  business line management, and regularly reviewed to ensure it remains appropriately calibrated. The  PRA expects to review these arrangements as part of its review   of firms’ liquidity management.  The Liquidity   Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (L - SREP)  Consistent with the process set out in the EBA SREP Guidelines and building on previous liquidity  reviews and ongoing supervisory activities, the PRA will car ry out an L - SREP of the firm in a manner  and at a frequency which is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of a firm’s activities.  This approach is consistent with the PRA’s secondary competition objective.  In carrying out the L - SREP, the PRA w ill as a minimum undertake the following:     review the arrangements, strategies, and processes implemented by a firm to comply with the  liquidity standards laid down in the ILAA rules, Part Six (Liquidity) of the CRR and the Delegated  Act. This includes revi ewing firms’ Common Reporting (COREP) liquidity returns.     evaluate the liquidity and funding risks to which the firm is or might be exposed;     assess the risks that the firm poses to the financial system;     evaluate the further liquidity and funding risks revea led by stress testing; and     evaluate whether the level and composition of the firm’s liquidity resources are adequate to  meet the firm’s liquidity needs over different time horizons.  Based on this assessment, the PRA will:     determine specific quantitative IL G (individual liquidity guidance);     determine specific qualitative ILG; and     determine firms’ overall liquidity risk scoring.  The following paragraphs detail how the PRA will carry out L - SREPs, and how it will set ILG.  L - SREP  The PRA will assess whether a fi rm, in its ILAAP document, has adequately identified its liquidity  needs across appropriate time horizons in severe but plausible stresses for all relevant risk drivers  and whether its liquidity resources are adequate to meet those needs. In addition, the   L - SREP will  also review the governance arrangements of the firm, its risk management culture, and the ability of  members of the management body to perform their duties. The degree of involvement of the  management body will be taken into account, as will th e appropriateness of the internal processes  and systems underlying the ILAAP. Examples of review topics might cover the firm’s risk appetite,  liquidity contingency plans and non - stressed funding plans, collateral management, the ability to  monetise HQLAs a nd wider liquidity in a timely fashion, intraday arrangements, market access and  asset encumbrance. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

The PRA may need to request further information and meet with the management body and  other representatives of a firm   in order to evaluate fully the compreh ensiveness of the ILAAP and the  adequacy of the governance arrangements around it. The management body should be able to  demonstrate an understanding of the ILAAP consistent with its taking responsibility for   the ILAAP.  And the management of the firm at ap propriate levels should be prepared to discuss and defend all  aspects of the ILAAP, covering both quantitative and qualitative components.   Additionally, the PRA  will consider the business model of the firm and the advocated rationale for the model, as well   as the  firm’s expectations regarding the future market and economic environment and how they might  affect its liquidity position and funding profile.  The PRA will review if a firm accurately and consistently complies with the obligations of the  Delegated   Act, including whether a firm is appropriately applying the outflow rates prescribed in the  Delegated Act.  On the basis of the L - SREP, the PRA will determine whether the arrangements, strategies,  processes and mechanisms implemented by a firm and the liqui dity it holds provide sound  management and adequate coverage of its risks. This assessment is reflected in the PRA’s ILG.  Setting ILG  Following the L - SREP, the PRA will give ILG. Compliance with ILG does not relieve firms of their  responsibility to comply   with OLAR.  A key element of the PRA’s ILG is to advise a firm of the amount and quality of HQLAs which it  considers are appropriate, having regard to the liquidity risk profile of the firm. Quantitative  guidance will extend beyond the liquidity buffer the   firm is required to maintain under the LCR and  will cover liquidity risks to which the firm is exposed to but which are not captured by the LCR (‘Pillar  2’ quantitative requirements). Qualitative guidance will include actions required to mitigate those  ris ks identified as inconsistent with the PRA’s objectives. Where appropriate, the PRA may also set  specific guidance on pre - positioning collateral at the Bank of England.  Typically, ILG given to firms covers whether the:     quantity of   HQLAs held is sufficient;     quality and composition of HQLAs held are appropriate;     operational arrangements to manage HQLA are appropriate;     firm’s funding profile is appropriate; and     firm should undertake   any further qualitative arrangements to mitigate its liquidity risk.  Pillar 2   guidance  The   PRA   expects 10   that firms should survive throughout the granular LCR stress scenario   (30  day horizon)   of the CFMR framework   on a consolidated currency basis.   This guidance should be read  as being part of a firm’s ILG. This does not preclude the   use of other stress scenarios or tools to set  guidance, for example, in temporary and targeted ways based on tests of firms’ resilience to specific,  foreseeable, future stress events.  Mismatches under the CFMR scenarios are taken into account when assess ing compliance with  the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule .  10   This guidance will apply from a date, not before 1 January 2020, of which at least two months’ no tice will be provided on the PRA  website. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Pillar 2 asset eligibility  The type of HQLAs held to meet interim Pillar 2 add - ons should be no wider than defined in the  Delegated Act and follow the same composition by asset level as set out in th e Delegated Act. The  quality of HQLAs should be appropriate to mitigate firm - specific risks 11   and be consistent with the  OLAR.  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  Drawing down liquid asset buffers  Firms may draw down their liquid asset buffers as required in time s of stress, including where  this involves falling below the level of their quantitative ILG. 12   When this happens, the PRA will be  content for firms to rebuild their buffers over a reasonable period of time. The PRA does not expect  firms to hold higher liqu id asset buffers than the amount advised in their ILG or as required to meet  their assessment of overall liquidity adequacy, as appropriate. Specifically, there is no expectation on  firms to hold excess liquid assets so as to avoid falling below this level   in the event of a potential  stress.  A firm is expected to notify the PRA immediately if it falls, or is expected to fall, below the level  of its quantitative ILG. It should also expect to discuss with its   supervisors its plan for restoring  compliance with   the guidance, including actions already documented in the firm’s liquidity  contingency plan or broader recovery plan.  In exercising its judgement on what constitutes a reasonable time to rebuild buffers drawn down  in stress, the PRA will take into account   how far the firm has run down its liquidity buffer and the  expected duration of a stress. It will also consider the drivers of the firm’s shortfall, including in the  context of current and forecast macroeconomic and financial conditions. The PRA will also   take into  account the amount of pre - positioned collateral held at the Bank of England, or the amount available  for drawing at other central banks to which the firm has access.  The PRA continues to expect firms to have robust levels of pre - positioning.   However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access market  funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position collateral assets at the Bank of  England, as part of a complete suite of cont ingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  Collateral placed at the Bank of England  The Bank of England announced a number of changes to its liquidity insur ance facilities in  October 2013, 13   which were furt her updated with the publication of the Bank of England Market  Operations Guide in October 2019. 14   These changes were designed to increase the availability and  flexibility of liquidity insurance, by providing liquidity at longer maturities, against a wider   range of  collateral, at a lower cost and with greater predictability of access. The certainty with which a firm  can expect to be able to access the Bank of England’s facilities has been reinforced through a  11   For example, where the PRA advises a firm of an amount of HQLAs which the PRA considers appropriate to mitigate intraday liqu idity  risk, the PRA expects the firm to be able to liquidate these HQLAs on an intrada y basis, as required.  12   If a firm falls below the level of HQLAs indicated in its ILG and the minimum LCR requirement where this is lower that does n ot create  a presumption that it is not meeting Threshold Conditions.  13   ‘Liquidity Insurance at the Bank   of England: developments in the Sterling Monetary Framework’, October 2013;  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe /files/markets/sterling - monetary - framework/liquidity - insurance - at - the - boe.pdf .  14   October 2019:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/markets/bank - of - england - market - op erations - guide . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

presumption that all firms that meet Threshold Co nditions may sign up for the Sterling Monetary  Framework and have full access to   Sterling Monetary Framework facilities against eligible collateral .  [Deleted]  5.2A   All of the Bank of England’s liquidity facilities are intended to be open for business. As   such  there is no presumptive order of use for firms between using the Bank of England’s liquidity facilities,  including the Discount Window Facility (DWF), and drawing down of their liquidity buffers to meet a  liquidity need. Firms should exercise their ow n judgement in applying for, and using, the Bank of  England’s liquidity facilities. Although the PRA does not expect firms to rely on the DWF for routine  day - to - day liquidity management, neither is it intended to be a last resort.  5.2B   As noted in SS9/17   ’Recovery Planning’, firms are expected to have credible options to restore  their financial position under different types of stresses. 15   Firms might consider the use of central  bank facilities, whether at the Bank of England or other central banks, in thei r recovery plans. As part  of recovery planning, firms are required to consider the circumstances in which they would need to  access these facilities and also test the operational aspects of their plan for accessing central banks  facilities. They should und ertake an analysis of eligible assets and the drawing capacity against these,  and ensure that an appropriate amount of assets are pre - positioned.  A firm can count assets pre - positioned at the Bank of England to meet the PRA’s quantitative  liquidity guidanc e, if these assets are eligible for inclusion in the HQLA buffer under the Delegated  Act. If pre - positioned assets are not eligible for inclusion in the HQLA buffer, they cannot be used to  meet the PRA’s quantitative liquidity guidance. However the PRA wil l consider the firm’s pre -  positioning position as part of its assessment of the effectiveness of the firm’s liquidity contingency  plans and will take appropriate mitigating action where it is inadequate. 16  The PRA continues to expect firms to have robust   levels of pre - positioning. However, the PRA  also acknowledges the need for flexibility for firms to be able to use these assets to access market  funding. The PRA would normally expect firms to pre - position collateral assets at the Bank of  England, as part   of a complete suite of contingency funding arrangements and may provide explicit  guidance as to minimum expected levels.  Reporting  CRD Article 104(1)(j) enables the PRA to impose additional or more frequent reporting of  liquidity positions. CRR Article 41 4 requires institutions which do not meet the LCR to report the LCR,  stable funding and additional liquidity monitoring metric returns, as appropriate, daily by the end of  each business day unless the competent authority authorises a lower frequency and a   longer delay.  The PRA considers that for firms with a balance sheet total above £5 billion it is appropriate to  submit the following returns on a daily basis during times of stress in accordance with of CRR Article  414:     Liquidity Coverage templates (C 72.0 0 – C 76.00); and     Rollover of funding (C 70.00).  6.2A   The PRA considers that during times of stress , for example in accordance with Article 5 of  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2015/61 , it is appropriate for firms with:  15   December 2017:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2017/recovery - planning - ss .  16   Note that ‘holding   collateral immediately available for central bank funding’ is a specific operational step which firms must take to  ensure that their plans can be implemented immediately (see ILAA rule, 12.3 and Article 86(11) of the CRD. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

   total   assets   above   € 3 0   billion to submit the PRA110 on a daily basis; and     total   assets below   € 3 0   billion to submit the PRA110 on a weekly basis.  Therefore, the PRA expects those firms to have systems and processes in place that enable them  to report these returns on a daily ba sis. The PRA recognises that firms may require time to develop  systems and processes and will be proportionate in its expectations.  The PRA will be proportionate in its approach to additional or more frequent reporting from a  firm during a stress.  In addi tion to the above, the PRA expects all firms to have the capability to produce key data to  monitor liquidity buffers, contractual and stress - tested cashflows, wholesale counterparties and  Financial Services Compensation Scheme balances in the event of a cr isis.  Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance  In line with legal requirements, firms report all eligible HQLA within their publically disclosed  liquidity coverage ratios (LCRs). This includes HQLA held for Pillar 1 requirements, Pillar   2 guidance,  and any eligible   ‘surplus’ above that. However, firms should be clear to investors that the HQLA they  report in their LCRs is to cover both Pillar   1 and Pillar 2 risks .  The PRA expects firms not to disclose publically their total ILG. Disclosure of ILG may lead to an  expe ctation, from both firms and markets, that firms should hold a further buffer of liquid assets,  above their level of ILG. The PRA has no such expectation, as outlined in paragraph 4.1. Therefore,  the PRA expects that firms will not provide any further deta ils on their Pillar   2 guidance unless  disclosure is required by law, and that firms will notify the PRA in advance of any proposed disclosure  announcement . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Appendices  Appendix 1:   Suggested structure   and content of ILAAP document   16  Appendix 2: Glossary of Abbreviations   19 SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Appendix   1 :   Suggested structure and content of ILAAP document  Heading   Detail  Overview   This section is for introductory text describing the business model, the reach and systemic  presence of the firm. Internal and external changes since the last liquidity review   should  be described. Changes in the scope of the document since the last review by the  management body should be included.  Firms should justify the comprehensiveness and proportionality of their process.  (Proportionality may also be addressed under the rel evant headings below where this fits  better).  Summary  conclusions  Firms should provide the summarised conclusions of their overall liquidity adequacy  review, stating how and whether they meet the Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule (Internal  Liquidity   Adequacy Assessment 2.1) and with regard to the additional guidance provided in  supervisory statement SS24/15, ‘The PRA’s approach to supervising liquidity and funding  risks’, under ‘Overall liquidity adequacy’.   Any shortcomings and remedial plans should b e  discussed.  The firm should present its assessment of any additional liquidity it believes it should hold  on account of risks not captured in Pillar 1.  LCR reporting  HQLA   In this section, firms should discuss their approach to ensure compliance with the  Delegated Act overall. The following areas, where relevant, should receive particular  focus: the approach to implementation of Article 7, the operational requirements detailed  in Article 8, the work undertaken in response to Article 23, the approach to c lassification  of retail deposits specified in Articles 24 and 25 and classification of operational deposits  specified in Article 27.  Outflows  Inflows  Liquidity Risk Assessment  Evaluation of  liquidity   needs in the  short and   medium  term  In this   section, firms should describe their liquidity profile at appropriate time horizons out  to 12 months, the sources and uses on gross and net basis, and their activities undertaken  to cover such liquidity needs in both BAU and stress. The firm should also   de scribe any  ways in which the LCR metric does not capture its liquidity risks within 30 days and how  that risk will be managed. For   further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines  2014/13, ‘Evaluation of liquidity needs in the short and medium term’,   within   Title 8.  Evaluation of  intraday   risk  In this section, firms should describe how intraday risk is created within their business,  whether part of the payments system or not,   their appetite for and approach to managing  intraday liquidity risk of both   cash and securities accounts and in both business as usual  and stress conditions. They should include the approach to stress testing and conclusions.  For further guidance, firms should refer to   the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of  intraday liquidity   risk’ within Title 8, as well as additional material contained within  SS24/15.  Evaluation of  liquidity   buffer and  counterbalancing  capacity  In this section, firms should describe the procedures for calculating, controlling and  monitoring the liquid assets   buffer and   counterbalancing capacity, and their effectiveness  in different scenarios which should include those affecting the liquidity of the   assets and  counterbalancing capacity. The firm's use of pre - positioning at the Bank of England or any  other cent ral bank should be   included. For further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA  Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of liquidity buffer and counterbalancing   capacity’ within  Title 8, as well as additional material contained within SS24/15, especially under  ‘Ma naging the HQLA buffer’ and   ‘Role of collateral pre - positioned for use in the Bank of  England's liquidity insurance facilities’.  Inherent funding risk assessment SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Heading   Detail  Evaluation of risks to  stability of the  funding profile  In this section, firms should   describe the funding risk strategy and appetite, and the  profile, both the sources and uses on a gross and   net basis. For further guidance, firms  should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of the firm's funding profile’,  within   Title 8.  Evaluation of risks to  stability of the  funding   p rofile  In this section, firms should analyse the stability of the liabilities within the funding profile  and the circumstances in which they could   become unstable. This could include market  shifts including   changes in collateral values, excessive maturity mismatch, inappropriate  levels of asset encumbrance, concentrations (including single or connected counterparties,  or currencies). For further guidance, firms   should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13  ‘Eva luation of the risks to the stability of the funding profile’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of market  access  In this section, firms should analyse market access and current or future threats to this  access, including the impact of any short - term liquidity s tresses or negative news. For  further guidance, firms should refer to the EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Evaluation of actual  market access’, within Title 8.  Evaluation of  expected   change in  funding risks   based  on firms ’   f unding  plan.  Refer to EBA Guidelines   2014/13 Evaluation of expected change in funding risks based on  the firm's funding plan.  Risk management assessment (both liquidity and funding)  Assess risk strategy  and risk appetite  In this section, firms should describe the risk appetite and strategy,   how they were  devised, approved, monitored and reported, and how they are communicated throughout  the firm. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13 ‘Liquidity risk  strategy and liquidity risk tolerance’ within Title 8.  Organis ational  framework, policies  and procedures  In this section, firms should describe the governance and management arrangements  around the ILAAP including the involvement of the governing body. They should describe  also the risk framework overall and as it   pertains to liquidity and funding risks, the  technical and staff resources. The approach to maintaining market access should be  included. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13,  ‘Organisational framework, policies and procedure s’, within Title 8. SS24/15 also provides  guidance on the involvement of the management body and proportionality of the  framework.  Risk identification,  measurement,  management,  monitoring and  reporting  In this section, firms should describe the framework   and IT systems for identifying,  measuring, managing and monitoring and both internal and external reporting of liquidity  and funding risks, including intraday risk. The assumptions and methodologies adopted  should be described. Key indicators should be ev idenced and the internal information  flows described. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Risk  identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting’ within Title 8.  SS24/15 provides further guidance on managem ent involvement and proportionality of  the ILAAP process.  Firm’s liquidity  specific stress testing  In this section, firms should analyse the internal stress testing framework, including the  process and governance of and challenge to scenario design, deriv ation of assumptions  and design of sensitivity analysis, and the process of review and challenge and relevance  to the risk appetite. The process by which the stress results are produced, and  incorporated into the risk framework and strategic planning, and   the liquidity recovery  process should be scrutinised. The results and conclusions must be analysed, with  breakdown by each relevant risk driver. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA  Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Firm’s liquidity specific stress testin g,’ within Title 8, as well as  SS24/15, under the heading ‘Stress testing’, where a more detailed description of the risk  drivers can be found. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Heading   Detail  Liquidity risk internal  control framework  In this section, firms should describe their internal limit and contr ol framework, including  the limits and controls around liquid asset buffers, and the appropriateness of the limit  structure to the risk appetite. The transfer pricing framework should also be described  here, for example how the methodology was developed,   the process controlled,  monitored and reviewed, and the results cascaded throughout the firm to drive  behaviours and support performance measurement and business incentives. For further  guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Liquidity ri sk internal control  framework’, within Title 8. Some additional guidance can be found in SS24/15 under the  heading ‘Transfer pricing system’.  Liquidity contingency  plans  In this section, firms should detail the policies, procedures and action plans for re sponding  to severe disruptions in the firm's ability to fund itself. The plan should be that which is  contained within their Recovery and Resolution Plan, and it should be either cross  referenced or included within the ILAAP document. Guidance is provide d in Supervisory  Statement 18/13, ‘Recovery Planning’. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA  Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Liquidity contingency plans’, within Title 8, and in SS24/15, ‘Liquidity  contingency plan’.  Funding plans   Firms should provide the   full funding plan to demonstrate how it will support the  projected business activities in both business as usual and stress, implementing any  required improvements in the funding profile and evidencing that the risk appetite and  key metrics will not be br eached by the planned changes. Risks to the plan should be  discussed. Where a funding strategy is new, implementation procedures should be  detailed. For further guidance, firms should refer to EBA Guidelines 2014/13, ‘Funding  plans’, within Title 8. SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Appendix 2 :   Glossary of   Abbreviations  BIPRU 12   Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building   Societies and   Investment Firms   —   Chapter  12,   Liquidity Standards  CRR   Capital Requirements Regulation  CRD IV   Capital Requirements Directive IV  EBA   European Banking Authority  HQLA   High Quality Liquid Assets  ILAA   Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment  ILAAP   Internal   Liquidity Adequacy Assessment   Process  ILG   Individual Liquidity Guidance  ILSA   Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment  L - SREP   Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation   Process  LCR   Liquidity Coverage Requirement  OLAR   Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule  SREP   Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

Annex: Changes to SS24/15  March 2020  Following the publication of Policy Statement   4 / 2 0   ‘ Liquidity: The PRA’s approach to supervising  liquidity and funding risks’ , 17   this SS was updated to amend   the following   paragraphs in order   to  align the   PRA’s view of appropriate use of central bank facilities with the Bank of England Market  Operations Guide:     paragraph 5.1   has been amended to reflect and refer to the publication of the Bank of England  Market Operations   Guide in October 2019;     paragraph 5 .2   has been replaced with paragraph 5.2A to update and clarify the PRA’s view of  appropriate use of t he Bank’s liquidity facilities; and     paragraph 5.2B has been added to reiterate that firms should continue to meet the  exp ectations set out in SS9/17 ‘Recovery Planning’.  The updated SS will take effect from Monday 2 March 2020.  June 2019  Following publication of Policy Statement   13 /19 , 18   this SS was updated   to amend the following  paragraphs. The updated SS will   take effect f rom   Monday 1 July 2019 :     p aragraph 3.12   has been amended   to introduce a short delay to the application of the  guidance to survive the granular LCR stress scenario, in order to ensure the PRA110 reporting  template reflects information necessary to calculate   relevant monitoring metrics and clarify  that the PRA will give firms at least 2 months’ notice, through an update to its website, of the  date of its application, which will not be before 1 January   2020;     p aragraph 6.2   has been updated   to remove potential am biguity as to whether a firm should  wait for the PRA to notify it of the need to increase its PRA110 reporting frequency in stress;  and     paragraph 6.4   clarifies   that the PRA will be proportionate in its approach to additional or more  frequent reporting from a firm during a stress .  The SS has also been updated to include improvements to assist the reader, eg removing blank  pages, making hyperlinks visible and   having continuous footnote numbers.  April 2018  Following publication of Policy Statement 9/18 ‘Groups Policy and Double Leverage’ 1 , this SS was  updated to include additional expectations in relation to how firms fulfil their obligations under the  ILAA part   of the Rulebook with regards to the assessment of group risk (paragraph 2.35):     2.35 a) information on the distribution of outflows, inflows and liquid assets (broken down  by currencies);     2.35 b) the distinction between intragroup and external inflows;  17   March 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/liquidity - the - pras - approach - to -  supervising - liq uidity - and - funding - risks .  18   ‘Pillar 2 liquidity: Updates to the framework’:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regu lation/publication/2019/pillar - 2 -  liquidity - updates - to - the - framework . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss

   2.35 c) availability of liquid assets where they are not aligned to net outflows by currency or  by location; and     2.35 d) the impact of stress on intragroup flows, where outflows are significantly covered  by intragroup inflows.  February 2018  Following pu blication of Policy Statement   2 /18, 19   this SS was updated to include the following  paragraphs:     2.24A Calculation of maximum net debit position for direct and indirect participants in  payments and securities settlements systems.     2.29A Assessment of speed of   monetisation of HQLAs.     2.29B Application of monetisation limits in the CFMR framework.     3.12 Liquidity guidance on the granular LCR stress scenario.     3.13 Mismatches under the CFMR scenarios are taken into account when assessing compliance  with the Overall L iquidity Adequacy Rule     7.1 and 7.2 Disclosure of Pillar 2 guidance  This   SS was updated to amend   the paragraphs 2.17, 2.19, 2.20 (viii), 6.2 and 6.3.  This SS was updated to remove the paragraphs 3.15, 3.16 and 3.17.  December 2016  This SS was updated by PS 35 / 16 20   to include the following paragraphs:     2.35A Eligibility of reserves held at the Bank of England: To make readers aware of the  agreement between the PRA, as competent authority, and the Bank of England, acting in its  capacity as the central bank, for th e withdrawal of central bank reserves to be eligible as Level  1 HQLA under Delegated Act Article 10(1)(b)(iii).     2.35B Eligibility of shares: To identify the FTSE100 as a major stock index for the United  Kingdom   f or the purposes of Dele gated Act Article   12(1)(c)(i).  19   PS2/18 ‘Pillar 2 liquidity’, available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/pillar - 2 - liquidity .  20   PS35/16 ‘Responses to CP26/16’, available at:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  reg ulation/publication/2016/responses - to - cp - 26 - 2016 . SUPERSEDED 1 May 2020: This SS has been superseded by the December 2019 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/the-pras-approach-to-supervising-liquidity-and-funding-risks-ss


