---
title: "SS3515/ – Ss3515 June 2021"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2021/ss3515-june-2021.pdf"
---

# SS3515/ – Ss3515 June 2021

Supervisory Statement   |   SS35/15  Strengthening individual  accountability in insurance  June 2021 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Supervisory Statement   |   SS35/15  Strengthening individual  accountability in insurance  June 2021  © Bank of England   2021  Prudential Regulation Authority   | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

C ontents  Introduction   1  The Senior Managers Regime (SMR)   1  2A   The Senior Managers Regime (SMR)   25  Application of Conduct Standards and associated notification requirements   27  Assessing fitness and propriety   34  Regulatory references   36  Appendix: PRA Expected Responsibilities of NEDs in scope of the SMR   45  Annex: Summary of Updates to SS35/15   46 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   1  Introduction  This Supervisory Statement (SS) sets out the approach of the Prudential Regulation Authority  (PRA) to strengthening individual accountability in insurance. It is addressed to the following ent ities,  collectively termed ‘insurers’ in this SS:     UK Solvency II insurance   firms and groups;     third‐country insurance branches within the scope of rules transposing the Solvency II Directive;     the Society of Lloyd’s and managing agents ;   and     large   non - directive firms (NDFs). 1  The SS seeks to advance the PRA’s safety and soundness and insurance statutory objectives, by  setting out the PRA’s expectations of how insurers should comply with the regulatory framework of  the Senior Managers & Certificatio n Regime (SM&CR).  The PRA has considered matters to which it is required to have regard, and it considers that this  statement is compatible with the Regulatory Principles and relevant provisions of the Legislative and  Regulatory Reform Act 2006. This state ment is not expected to have any direct or indirect  discriminatory impact under existing UK law. In particular the statement sets expectations regarding:     the Senior Managers Regime (SMR) 2 ;     the Certification Regime;     the application of Conduct Standards and   associated notifications;     assessing fitness and propriety ; and     regulatory references.  This statement has been subject to public consultation and reflects the   responses received by  the PRA. 3 4  The Senior Managers Regime (SMR)  This chapter sets out the PRA’s   expectations of how insurers, and individuals performing a  Senior Management Function (SMF) (Senior Managers) at an insurer, comply with the SMR. In  particular, this chapter clarifies:     the scope of the SMR;  1   These are insurance firms that are out - of - scope of Solvency II,   and have assets relating to all regulated activities, with a value of more  than £25 million, as included in the firm’s two most recent reported annual accounts.  2   The Senior Insurance Managers Regime (SIMR) is renamed in this SS (updated on 4 July 2018)   as the Senior Managers Regime (SMR).  3   This statement combines draft supervisory statements that were consulted on in CP26/14, ‘Senior Insurance Managers Regime: a  new regulatory framework f or individuals’, November 2014:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages /publications/cp/2014/cp2614.aspx ; and CP7/15, ‘Approach to Non‐Executive Directors in  banking and Solvency II firms & Application of the presumption of responsibility to senior managers in banking firms’, Februa ry 2015;  www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/p ublications/cp/2015/cp715.aspx .  4   Please see also the feedback provided in PS22/15, ‘Strengthening individual accountability in insurance: responses to CP26/14 ,  C P7/15 and CP13/15’, August 2015:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ps/2015/ps221 5.aspx . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   2     the identification of key functions;     the allocat ion of responsibilities to individuals ;     the PRA’s expectations regarding the contents of Statements of Responsibilities (SoR) and  Management Responsibilities Maps; and     how the PRA expects to apply Section 66B(5) FSMA (known as the Duty of Responsibility).  This chapter should be read in conjunction with:     the relevant parts of the PRA Rulebook namely:  o   Insurance   –   Senior Management Functions, Insurance   –   Allocation of Responsibilities,  Conditions Governing Business, and Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety for So lvency II firms,  and ;  o   Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior Management Functions, Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Allocation of Responsibilities, Non - Solvency II Firms -   Governance, and Large Non - Solvency  II Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety for large NDFs     the re levant European legislation;     the Statement of Policy ‘Conditions, time limits, and variations of approval’; 5     the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA’s) rules and guidance on its corresponding SM&CR; and     SS5/16 ‘Corporate governance: Board responsibilities’   which is a supervisory statement on the  PRA’s expectations of boards that complements the SMR’s focus on individual accountability. 6  Senior Management Functions (SMFs)  This section sets out the PRA’s expectations of how insurers should comply with, and int erpret,  the rules in the Insurance   —   Senior Management Functions and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior  Management Functions Parts of the Rulebook, which govern the scope of the PRA’s SMR for  insurers. These rules specify the set of senior management fun ctions (SMFs) applicable to insurers.  Each of these SMFs is also a ‘senior management function’ as defined in section 59ZA of FSMA. The  acronym SMF is used in this SS for these senior management functions.  In view of the need to establish that an individ ual with appropriate skills, experience and  personal characteristics is responsible for each SMF, the PRA does not expect persons other than  natural persons to be approved for a SMF.  Criteria for a ‘Group Entity Senior Management Function’  The definition o f a Group Entity Senior Manager (SMF 7) for insurers will only encompass those  individuals who meet the criteria in section 59ZA of FSMA, and who are also deemed to be in a key  function (as defined in the PRA Rulebook). This is likely to include the chair   of the group board, or  5   Statement of Policy ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s policy on conditions, time limits and variations of approval’:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/conditions - time - limits - and - variations - of - approval .  6   SS5/16 , ‘Corporate governance: Board responsibilities’, March 2016:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2016/corporate - governance - board - responsibilities - ss . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   3  the chair of a key group board committee where that committee has direct responsibility for  oversight of the affairs of the insurer. It is also expected to include those Group Executive Directors  and Senior Managers who have responsi bility for some aspect of the safety and soundness of the  group, or of the PRA regulated insurance firms in the group.  However, the PRA believes that this definition of a SMF 7 should not normally encompass Non‐  Executive Directors (NEDs) in another group   company, (other than the chair of the group board or  the chair of a key group board committee (eg Audit Committee) where that committee has direct  responsibility for oversight of the affairs of the firm). It should also not normally encompass  individuals w ho are either in a role with a predominately conduct focus, or who are performing  relatively junior managerial roles.  This function should include any individual within the group (eg a group CEO) whose decisions  and actions have to be regularly taken into   account by the governing body of the firm.  The PRA expects individuals performing the Group Entity Senior Manager role to have regard for  the duties of NEDs on the board of a subsidiary through which the Group Entity Senior Manager is  directing business. T he board of the subsidiary is expected to provide proper oversight of the  subsidiary and has regulatory duties under FSMA and fiduciary duties under the Companies Act 2006  in this respect. This means a Group Entity Senior Manager may direct elements of the   business  which form part or all of a subsidiary only to the extent the board agrees to this. In practice this  means close liaison between the Group Entity Senior Manager and the NEDs of the subsidiary  including full and transparent passage of information.   The PRA will hold the NEDs and the Group  Entity Senior Manager accountable for this collaboration.  The PRA expects that the allocation of responsibilities should be made in such a way that it does  not undermine the collective fiduciary, legal and regulato ry responsibilities of the board, but rather  complements and informs the operation of collective decision‐making mechanisms.  International groups  The scope of the SMFs under the SMR only applies in relation to a firm’s UK‐regulated  activities. This   inherently limits the extent to which it can apply to individuals in a firm’s parent or  group entities, particularly those based overseas. However, the fact that an individual is located  outside the United Kingdom does not, in itself, mean that they cannot   perform an SMF on behalf of  a firm.  The PRA is mindful of both the territorial scope of the SMR and the governance arrangements  of international groups operating in the United Kingdom. Consequently, the PRA does not require  pre‐approval of senior individu als located overseas whose responsibilities in relation to the United  Kingdom are limited to developing the group’s overall strategy. The PRA’s focus is on those  individuals who, irrespective of their location, are directly responsible for implementing the   group’s  strategy at UK firms. The PRA and FCA followed a similar approach under the APR, which resulted in  a small number of individuals based overseas being approved as Significant Influence Functions  (SIFs) of UK firms.  Consequently, if an individual lo cated overseas is directly responsible for taking decisions about  how a UK firm should conduct its UK‐regulated activities and has not delegated this responsibility to  a Senior Manager based in the United Kingdom, it is likely that they will require approv al as SMF 7  (or, in some cases, another SMF). 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   4  The PRA does not aim or expect to approve individuals as SMF 7 in every UK firm which is part  of an overseas‐headquartered group. Whether these entities are required to have any individuals  approved as SMF 7 is   assessed on a case‐by‐case basis. In the first instance, it is up to firms to  consider whether there may be any individuals in their parent or group companies, in the United  Kingdom or overseas, who may be performing an SMF 7 on behalf of a firm. In doing   so, they should  take into account:     the respective organisational structures of the group and the firm;     the split of key responsibilities between the group and UK boards and senior management; and     whether SMFs based in the United Kingdom have an appropriat e level of delegated authority  from the group or parent to ensure that the UK entities comply with local regulatory obligations.  Independence requirements  Articles 258 & 271 of the EU Solvency II Delegated Regulation prevent individuals from  performing spe cific combinations of SMFs at the same firm, or require certain SMFs to be performed  independently of any other functions or activities of the firm.  2.14A In addition, Insurance   –   Senior Management Functions 13 requires that at ‘large firms’, the  Chair of   the Governing Body function (SMF9) (Chair of board) and Chief Executive Officer (SMF1)  (CEO) roles must not be combined with a single individual, and that for any insurance firm, within a  group, that is a ‘large firm’ (as defined in the Glossary of the PR A Rulebook), a group executive (ie an  employee or officer of the parent company or some other group company who performs an  executive function) may not take on a NED oversight SMF role (ie SMF 9, SMF10, SMF11, SMF12 or  SMF14) for that firm. This means for   example that a Group CEO (or CFO) should not take on a NED  chairing role for an insurance firm that is a ‘large firm’ within a group.  Where neither PRA rules nor the EU Solvency II Delegated Regulation prevent an individual  from performing a combination of   SMFs, or of SMFs and other roles, the PRA may still decide not to  approve the individual to perform the desired combined functions (and roles) in some  circumstances, such as where the PRA considers that:     there could be a significant conflict of interest f rom combining the functions or roles (other  than on a temporary basis), that would be difficult to manage satisfactorily, such as Chair of the  governing body (or a board committee) and CEO; or     the individual’s qualifications, training, competencies and/or   personal characteristics render  them fit and proper to perform one function or role but not the other(s).  The PRA envisages that a person may be approved to carry out Controlled Functions (CFs), or  CFs and other roles in more than one firm, subject to the   individual having sufficient time and  resource, and the ability to address any resulting conflicts of interest, and to the combination of  duties not preventing the person from carrying out all their responsibilities in a sound, honest, and  objective manner .  2.16A In particular, the Chair of a governing body (or board committee) needs to be able to ensure  the governing body (or board committee) is able to act in the best interests of the firm without  undue influence from the group, both in normal and stress ed conditions, particularly where the  interests of the firm and the interests of the group may diverge, so as to ensure the firm’s safety and  soundness and to safeguard its policyholders; and the Chair of a governing body (or board 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   5  committee) needs to be a ble to play a pivotal role in facilitating the board culture de scribed in  chapter 6 of SS5/16 ‘ Corporate govern ance: Board responsibilities’ .  Sharing a PRA SMF  In certain circumstances, including but not limited to job‐share arrangements, a firm may be  allowed to have more than one individual responsible for a single SMF.  The PRA expects to see a clear explanation and justification of how the relevant responsibilities  are allocated or shared between the individuals responsible for the SMF, along with the   reporting  lines and lines of responsibility for each individual.  However, the PRA expects SMFs to be shared between individuals only where appropriate and  justified. This individual(s) performing a SMF should be the most senior person(s) responsible for  t hat area of the firm.  2.19A Where two or more individuals share an SMF, each will be deemed fully accountable for all  the responsibilities inherent in, or allocated to that SMF. The same approach applies where a firm  allocates a PRA prescribed responsibili ty to two or more individuals performing different SMFs.  Principle of proportionality  In accordance with the principle of proportionality, and depending on the nature, scale and  complexity of the business activities and risks, the PRA expects that smaller   firms may be able to  combine responsibilities for different functions with a single individual. This will depend on the  entity meeting the need for transparency and accountability, the need for appropriate management  of any conflicts of interest, and the n eed for at least two persons to be effectively running the firm.  A third country branch undertaking must have at least one individual approved to perform the  Head of Third Country Branch SMF as set out in Insurance   —   Senior Management Functions 6 (and,  whe re relevant, a With‐Profits Actuary). It is not required to have individual(s) approved in advance  to perform any of the other key functions, but a third country branch undertaking will need to notify  the PRA of the identity of key function holders and pro vide relevant information about them.  However, if a third country branch undertaking has some individuals who are appointed to  either the chief finance officer, chief risk officer, chief actuary, chief underwriting officer, chief  operations, or head of int ernal audit functions, and whose role is dedicated to the undertaking’s  operations in the UK, then the PRA expects firms to apply for the approval of such individuals for the  relevant functions. They may also wish to have some additional individuals approv ed, so as to be  able to meet the requirement to have all the Prescribed Responsibilities, as set out in Insurance ‐  Allocation of Responsibilities 2.3, allocated to an approved person.  Internal audit function  2.22A In accordance with Insurance   –   Senior Man agement Functions 2.7, those Solvency II firms that  are not classed as ‘significant’, and which elect to outsource their internal audit function to a third  party, are not required to have an individual approved to perform the Head of Internal Audit  functio n (SMF5).  2 .22B ‘Significant’ is not defined in the PRA Rulebook for the purpose of applying the above rule, but  the factors that may be taken into account in considering whether or not a firm is significant may  include for example the potential impact of   a firm on the stability of the UK financial system and its  capacity to cause disruption to the interests of a substantial number of policyholders. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   6  2.22C Instead of the requirement to have an individual approved to perform the Head of Internal  Audit functi on (SMF5), insurers that are not ‘significant’ and which elect to outsource their internal  audit function to a third party are required to allocate a new Prescribed Responsibility to one of their  non - executive directors who performs a SMF or an FCA governi ng function 7   such as the Chair of the  Audit Committee (SMF11) for:  •   providing for an effective internal audit function; and  •   overseeing the performance of the internal audit function.  Firms in run - off (other than third country branch undertakings) that n o longer have  regulatory permissions to write new business  2.22D Where a UK Solvency II firm no longer has permission to write new business (and has not  written or acquired any further business in the last twelve months), and has less than £25m  technical p rovisions as reported in its two most recent annual accounts (ie is a ‘small run - off firm’), it  is only required to comply with a streamlined SMR as set out in the PRA Rulebook.  2.22E The key differences between this streamlined SMR for small run - off firms   and the full SMR for  Solvency II insurance firms are as follows:  •   Small run - off firms are only required by Chapter 6A in the Insurance   –   Senior Management  Functions part of the PRA Rulebook to have individuals approved to perform (1) either the  CEO funct ion (SMF1) or the Head of Small Run - off Firm function (SMF26), (2) the Chief  Finance function (SMF2), and, where applicable, (3) the With - Profits Actuary function  (SMF21); rather than the full suite of SMFs for which individuals are required to be approved  for Solvency II insurance firms; and  •   there is a smaller set of four PRA Prescribed Responsibilities, as set out in Insurance   –  Allocation of Responsibilities 3.2, which these firms need to allocate among their SMFs, or to  an FCA CF who is in a ‘relevant   senior management function’.  2.22F   However,   in accordance with Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 4,   these firms will still need to  appoint key function holders (KFHs) for the four mandatory key functions (ie actuarial, risk  management, internal audit, and   compliance), ensure that they are fit and proper on an ongoing  basis, and notify these individual KFHs to the PRA on appointment with all the information needed  for a fit and proper assessment.  2.22G In order to avoid firms moving unexpectedly between the   streamlined SMR and the full SMR  as a result of the size threshold (described in paragraph 2.22D above) no longer being met, the  definition of a ‘small run - off firm’ in the PRA Rulebook has been written in such a way as to enable  the rules for the streaml ined regime (once triggered) to continue to apply, as long as the firm does  not have permission to effect contracts of insurance, does not write any further new business, and  does not acquire any additional business from another insurance firm.  Chief Oper ations function  2.22H   Depending on the nature, scale and complexity of a firm’s internal operations, the PRA  expects there   to   be an individual holding the Chief Operations   function   (SMF24). The individual  7   Definition of this term is in the PRA Rulebook glossary at the following link:  w ww.prarulebook.co.uk/rulebook/Glossary/FullDefinition/67042/23 - 09 - 2016 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   7  holding the Chief Operations SMF should be the most   senior individual responsible for managing the  internal operations and technology of a firm, and this is expected to include responsibility for the  operational continuity and resilience of the operations, systems and technology of the firm .   The  latter inc ludes, but may not be necessarily limited to, the mechanisms and networks that support  the operations of a firm, including data entry, data storage, data processing and reporting services,  but also monitoring, business and decision support services.   The PR A expe cts that an individual in  the S MF24 role would normally report directly to the CEO (or to the governing body).  2.22I SMF24 is the exception to a general expectation that SMFs can be shared but not split. SMF24s  may be shared or split among two or mor e individuals provided that the split accurately reflects the  relevant firm’s organisational structure and that comprehensive responsibility for operations and  technology is not undermined. For instance, where a relevant firm has two distinct but equally  s enior individuals (eg a Chief Operating Officer and a Chief Information Officer (CIO)) with overall  responsibility for its internal operations and technology respectively, it may be appropriate for the  SMF24 to be split among them. Where the SMF24 is split , the PRA does not expect it to be split  among more than three individuals .  2.22J The PRA expects that individuals in scope of the Chief Operations SMF may hold the job title of  Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) but may also hold job titles such as Chief Adm inistrative Officer  (‘CAO’) or Head of Operations and Technology (‘O&T’). Not every individual with these job titles will  necessarily come into scope of the Chief Operations SMF: this will be determined by their specific  responsibilities.   The PRA expects t hat a responsibility for operations and technology would normally  be a significant part of the overall responsibilities of a Chief Operations SMF24 (so that those  business unit managers with only an incidental responsibility for technology and operations w ould  not be encompassed). However, t he individual with the responsibilities for managing the internal  operations and technology of a firm may have a wider set of responsibilities, either within the firm  or its group, and a summary of all these responsibili ties would be set out in the ‘scope of  responsibilities’ (SoR) that is maintained for that individual in accordance with Insurance   -   Allocation  of Responsibilities 5.  2.22K Where firms have significant levels of operational infrastructure and oversight bas ed either at  group level or outside the United Kingdom, it may be appropriate for the Chief Operations SMF of a  firm to sit at group or parent - entity level and/or outside the United Kingdom. Where relevant, the  Chief Operations SMF will also apply to incom ing third country branches which have an individual  performing that function in respect of the activities of the branch.  2.22L Where a firm splits the Chief Operations SMF among two or more individuals, the  responsibilities of each relevant individual should be unambiguously clear and set out in their  respective SoR.   These responsibilities may include but not necessarily be   limited to areas such as:  •   business continuity;  •   cyber security;  •   information technology;  •   internal operations;  •   operational continuity, resilience and strategy;  •   outsourcing, procurement and vendor management; and  •   shared services. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   8  2.22LA Respons ibilities likely to be allocated the SMF24 may overlap with other Prescribed  Responsibilities or FCA functions. 8   As long as accountability for all relevant responsibilities is clear  and explicit, firms may allocate them in whichever way best reflects the w ay they organise  themselves in practice.  Head of Key Business Area function  2.22M The Head of Key Business Area function (SMF6) is the function of having responsibility for the  management of a business area or division that meets the size threshold in Ins urance   –   Senior  Management Functions 3.5, and for which the relevant individual performing this function does not  report to another more senior holder of a SMF6 function in respect of that same business area or  division.  2.22N   T he size threshold for the   identification of a large business area or division is referenced to  the gross revenue income, as well as to the value of assets or technical provisions held by the firm,  that relate to the business area or division. The PRA expects firms to make a reasona ble estimate for  the purpose of applying this size threshold of the value of :   (a) the assets ;   and/or (b) the technical  provisions, unless one of (a) or (b) is not relevant and/or readily available for that business area.  Long - term absence  2.22O   In accordance with Insurance   –   Senior Managers Regime   –   Applications and Notifications 5  and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior Managers Regime   –   Applications and Notifications 5 (as  applicable), where there is a change in circumstance, the firm must inf orm the PRA of the change to  that person’s role.  2.22P   Where a firm is keeping open the relevant role for a person (P) while they are on long - term  leave:     t he PRA does not expect the firm to seek re - approval for P to perform that role on their return ;     t he   PRA expects the firm to notify   it   in a Form D that P is on long term leave. The firm will also  need to submit a Form J as there will be a significant change in the Statement of Responsibility  for P ;     t he PRA does not expect to receive such a notification   when the person goes on holiday or has a  short illness. The PRA does not expect such a notification where the leave is shorter than 12  weeks ;     a nother individual can perform that role for the duration of P’s leave. This will be necessary  where the function   is mandatory. Subject to the 12 - week rule, the interim appointee would  need to be approved. Such approval could be on a time - limited basis ;     On P’s return, the firm should use Form D and Form J, to update the previous notification. The  firm would not need   to seek re - approval for P to perform that role, but the obligation for firms  to perform a fitness and propriety assessment under section 63(2A) FSMA still applies ;   and     The obligation in Notifications 11.5 continues during the temporary absence, meaning th at the  firm must inform the PRA when it becomes aware of information which would reasonably be  material to the assessment of the fitness and propriety of P .  8   SYSC4. Annex 1G. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   9  2.22Q   Where a firm is not keeping open the role for P, it will need to submit a Form C to notify t he  PRA that the individual is no longer performing that function. 9   In such a case, if P does return to the  role, they will need to be re - approved.  Key functions  In accordance with the Conditions Governing Business Part and the EU Solvency II Delegated  Regulation, the system of governance of each Solvency II insurance firm and group needs to cover at  least the following key functions: risk‐management, compliance, internal audit, and actuarial. In  addition, all of the SMFs (as defined in the PRA Rulebook)   are considered to be key functions. The  system of governance may also include additional key functions that are of specific importance to  the sound and prudent management of the firm, as assessed by the firm or group concerned.  When assessing whether an a dditional key function exists, firms and groups are expected to  take into consideration whether:     the function is essential for the proper functioning of the firm or group considering its risk  profile and business;     the function assumes material or complex   financial market risks as part of its activities, or  assumes material credit risk through the activity of providing loans;     the function needs a competence that is difficult to replace; or     any failure in the operation or effectiveness of the function may   seriously threaten the interests  of the insurance firm or group or its policyholders.  The PRA does not consider that key function is intended to be a closed category. In order to  facilitate consistency, the PRA suggests that firms may wish to consider whe ther the following  functions would meet the criterion of being of specific importance to the sound and prudent  management of the firm, so as to be considered a key function:     investment function (see 2. 27   below);     claims management function (especially for general or health insurance firms);     operational systems (and controls) function (if not covered by a Chief Operations SMF   –   see  2.22H to 2.22LA above);     IT function   (if not covered by a Chief Operations SMF   –   see   2.22H to 2.22LA above) ; and     reinsurance function (if separate from the other key functions, e.g. risk management) .  These are functions whose operation, if not properly managed and overseen, could for some  firms, depending on the nature and complexity of   the business, potentially lead to significant losses  being incurred or to a failure in the ongoing ability of the firm to meet its obligations to  policyholders.  9   In accordance with Insurance   -   Senior Managers Regime and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -   Senior Managers  Regime   –   Applications and Notifications 4 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   10  The PRA expects that investment managers and traders, who either oversee or undertake  signific ant, or frequent, investment (or currency) activities on behalf of the firm (or any of its clients  or policyholders) would normally be considered to be performing a key function (and/or may be in a  certification function   –   see chapter 2A).  The PRA would n ormally expect a key function holder to report into a very senior figure at the  firm such as the CEO or possibly some other Senior Manager. In cases where there is more than one  head of a function, the PRA anticipates that responsibility for a particular k ey function might be  shared between more than one individual. This would be in a similar way, and subject to similar  restrictions, to the sharing of responsibilities by two Senior Managers (see paragraphs 2.17 to 2.19A  above).  In accordance with Insurance   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms  –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5, Solvency II insurance firms and large NDFs should prepare and  maintain a management responsibilities map. This should show the key functions at the firm , and  the relevant individuals (termed key function holders) responsible for these functions, along with  their lines of accountability and responsibility both within that firm and any wider group. This  management responsibilities map should be set out and   maintained in a clear and coherent manner.  A firm or group can freely decide how to organise each function in practice, taking into account  the nature, scale and complexity of the risks inherent in its business, and the need for an effective  system of gov ernance with a clear allocation of responsibilities. Within this structure the PRA  believes that firms will be able to operate within their intended risk appetite and agreed risk strategy  and risk profiles without the need for all executive decisions to be   taken to the board. However, it is  expected that appropriate oversight of executive decisions will continue to be made by the board as  part of its oversight function, promoting a culture of effective risk management.  Performance of each of the above key f unctions may be outsourced by Solvency II firms to  another undertaking, in accordance with the provisions in the EU Solvency II Regulations, and with  guidelines issued by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA). However,  there al so needs to be appropriate oversight of any outsourced functions. The PRA expects the  management responsibilities map to set out which key functions have been outsourced (in whole or  in part), the name of the service provider, and the identity of the key f unction holder within the firm  who has the responsibility for oversight of that function.  The activity of ‘effectively running the firm’ is normally expected to include all the members of  the governing body, as well as those individuals on the governing bo dy of a parent or other group  company who are exercising the Group Entity Senior Management function. As indicated in the  EIOPA guidelines on Systems of Governance, it would also include the members of the senior  management (such as the CEO) who are respon sible for high level decision making, and for  implementing the strategies devised, and the policies approved, by the board.  The PRA expects that firms and groups should have clear structures of accountability and  delegation of individual and collective re sponsibilities, including checks and balances to prevent  dominance by an individual. Senior individuals remain accountable for the actions of those to whom  they delegate responsibilities, including in particular where firms outsource functions to third  par ties.  Third country branch undertakings will also need to establish which are the key functions in  respect of the branch’s operations and include at least the four minimum key functions specified in  the Directive. The rules in Insurance ‐Fitness and Propri ety 4 will then apply in respect of those key 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   11  functions. In particular, the relevant individuals responsible for these key functions will need to be  notified to the PRA for an assessment of their fit and proper status if they will not directly be in  either   a PRA SMF or FCA CF.  Allocation of responsibilities to Senior Managers and NEDs  [deleted]  There are a number of responsibilities inherent in the definition of each SMF in the PRA  Rules 10   which should be read in conjunction with the EU Solvency II Delegated   Regulation. Even  where a Senior Manager has not been allocated other responsibilities by the firm, the responsibility  inherent in the definition of the SMF establishes that they will be deemed accountable for that  aspect of the firm’s activities. For exam ple, if an individual performing SMF5 has no other  responsibilities allocated to them, they will be deemed accountable for all aspects relating to the  management of the firm’s internal audit function, including reporting to the board and/or Audit  Committee .  In addition, Insurance ‐ Allocation of Responsibilities 3 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Allocation of Responsibilities 3, set out a number of ‘Prescribed Responsibilities’ which cover:     the firm’s implementation and operation of the SMR;     the culture   and standards within the firm; and     a number of areas in which the PRA has specific interest as a prudential regulator.  2.37A In particular, it should be noted that the PRA expects insurers to observe high standards in the  management of operational as wel l as financial risks. For example, insurers should have procedures  in place to ensure continuity of critical services, such as the payment of claims to policyholders.  There is therefore a Prescribed Responsibility in relation to the oversight of compliance   with the  requirements of the PRA Rulebook in respect of any outsourced operational functions and activities.  2.37B The PRA expects the senior manager holding the prescribed responsibility (PR) for the  performance of obligations in respect of outsourced   operational functions and activities to be  accountable for the firm’s overall policy and strategy in respect of outsourced operational functions  and activities; as well as for compliance with the outsourcing requirements for these functions and  activities,   that are set out in the Rulebook, the EU regulations, and EIOPA guidelines. This PR would  not overlap with the separate prescribed responsibility for those non - significant firms that outsource  their internal audit (see paragraph 2.22C), as this PR is not   expected to encompass either external or  internal audit activities. The PRA does not expect this PR to encompass through PRA rules any  responsibilities that are applied through FCA rules (eg for how claims are handled).  The PRA requires firms to allocate P RA Prescribed Responsibilities to any Senior Manager or  director performing a SMF specified by the PRA or to a CF specified by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) (in SUP 10C of the FCA Handbook) which is a ‘relevant senior management function’.  In pract ice, the PRA expects firms will generally allocate Prescribed Responsibilities to the function  to which they are most closely linked.  10   Insurance   –   Senior Management Functions, Conditions Governing Business, Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior Management  Functions, and Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Governance, Parts of the PRA Rulebook. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   12  Appropriate responsibilities may, where relevant, be allocated to a Group Entity Senior  Manager (SMF 7). The relevant allo cations of responsibilities for each regulated firm will need to be  set out clearly in the management responsibilities map(s) that are maintained. The PRA still expects  any potential conflicts of interest to be addressed properly. In addition, the firm wou ld need to  ensure that each individual had the necessary time and resources available so that they could  perform their role(s) in a sound, honest, fair, objective and suitably independent manner, as  required by the EU Solvency II Delegated Regulation.  Cert ain Prescribed Responsibilities can only be assigned to NEDs who are approved to perform  an SMF or an FCA governing function, namely:‐  •   oversight of the development and implementation of policies and procedures of the firm’s  remuneration policies and proc edures,  •   oversight of the independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the firm’s policies and  procedures on whistleblowing, and  •   providing for an effective internal audit function, and oversight of the performance of that  function, for firms that are   not significant and have outsourced that function externally.  Statements of responsibilities for NEDs  The PRA recognises that NEDs in scope of the SMR do not manage a firm’s business in the same  way as executive SMFs and therefore the responsibilities for   which they are accountable are more  limited.  Those NEDs who are subject to pre‐approval by the PRA or the FCA are neither required nor  expected to assume executive responsibilities, but are expected to take on certain responsibilities  (set out in the Appen dix) all of which are non‐executive in nature and are either inherent in or derive  from their Chair or Senior Independent Director (SID) roles.  The potential accountability of NEDs in scope of the SMR is restricted to those activities for  which they are re sponsible, which include (but are not limited to):     ensuring that the board and/or the committees which they chair:  o   meet with sufficient frequency;  o   foster an open, inclusive discussion which challenges executives where appropriate; and  o   devote sufficient tim e and attention to matters within their remit which are relevant to  the firm’s safety and soundness;     helping to ensure that the board or committee and its members have the information necessary  to perform their tasks;     facilitating the running of the board   or committee to assist it in providing independent oversight  of executive decisions; and     reporting to the main board on the committee’s activities.  The role of the Chair of the governing body and of the board committees is integral to a firm’s  safety   and soundness. Consequently, the PRA expects Chairs to: 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   13     seek proactively to remain appraised of matters relating to the board and its individual  committees by, for instance, having regular discussions with the Chairs of the Audit,  Remuneration and Risk Committees outside board meetings; and     commit a significan tly larger proportion of their time to their functions than other NEDs. The PRA  expects Chairs, in particular those of major firms, not to have or take on additional commitments  which may interfere with the fulfilment of their responsibilities to the firm   under the SMR. The  PRA may consider using its powers to impose conditions on approval to time limit a Chair’s ability  to take on additional external commitments where it considers that doing so may advance its  objectives. 11  As discussed in Chapter 4, firms   must assess the fitness and propriety of those NEDs which are  not in scope of the SMR (Notified NEDs) periodically and comply with certain notification  requirements to the PRA. The PRA expects the responsibility for the firm’s performance of its  obligation s in respect of its Notified NEDs under Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety 2.1, and Large  Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety 2.1, to be allocated to the Chair of the board (ie the  SMF9 Chair of the Governing Body function).  Insurance ‐ Senior Man agement Functions 4.5 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior  Management Functions 4.5 specifies a SID (SMF 14), which it defines as the function of having  responsibility for leading the assessment of the performance of the person performing the Chair of  the Governing Body function. Where a firm has a SID, the PRA expects their assessment of the Chair  to consider, among other things:     the extent to which the Chair   has fulfilled their responsibilities under the SMR; and     the quality and sufficiency of resour ces allocated to the Chair of the   governing body ’s   office.  Individual accountability and collective decision - making by boards  The PRA views the SMR and its application as consistent with the principle of collective  decision‐making. The SMR co‐exists with   the statutory and fiduciary duties of directors under UK  company law and domestic and international corporate governance standards. The SMR clarifies and  formalises the individual responsibilities which NEDs in scope of the SMR should already have in  pract ice.  The PRA considers it vital that the board as a whole understands the Threshold Conditions,  Fundamental Rules and more detailed underlying rules in the PRA Rulebook. Boards should establish  within their firms a culture that supports adherence to the sp irit and letter of these requirements.  As part of its ongoing supervision of firms’ governance, the PRA assesses the overall  composition and effectiveness of boards. Moreover the PRA expects firms to discuss succession  planning and proposed changes to thei r board with supervisors irrespective of whether the  proposed change relates to a function in scope of the SMR or not.  Sharing Prescribed Responsibilities  PRA Prescribed Responsibilities can be allocated to more than one Senior Manager. However,  where a f irm allocates a PRA Prescribed Responsibility to more than one Senior Manager, each of  11   See Statement of Policy ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s   policy on conditions, time limits and variations of approval’:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publicatio n/2015/conditions - time - limits - and - variations - of - approval . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   14  those individuals will be deemed fully accountable for that responsibility. PRA Prescribed  Responsibilities can therefore be shared, but not split among two or more SMFs .  Where a PRA Prescribed Responsibility is shared among more than one Senior Manager, the  PRA expects the responsibility to be recorded identically in each of the Senior Manager’s Statement  of Responsibility (SoR). However, firms are expected to utilise th e free text section in the SoRs to  provide additional details on how a given shared Prescribed Responsibility applies to the different  individuals sharing it in practice. For example, the Prescribed Responsibility in Insurance   -   Allocation  of Responsibilit ies 3.1(4) (responsibility for the production and integrity of the firm’s financial  information and its regulatory reporting under the regulatory system) is often shared among two  SMFs, typically the Chief Finance (SMF2) and Chief Risk (SMF4) functions. Wh ere this is the case,  firms should utilise the free text in SoRs to specify and, where appropriate, list the financial and  regulatory returns that each SMF is responsible for.  Similarly, where one or more individuals share the Prescribed Responsibility for   the firm’s  performance of its obligations in respect of outsourced operational functions and activities, firms  may wish to provide details on which key outsourced relevant services and activities each individual  is responsible for overseeing in their resp ective SoRs.  An example of the interplay between the principles of appropriate individual accountability,  which lies at the heart of the SMR, and collective decision - ¬making, can be found in the two  Prescribed Responsibilities in Insurance   -   Allocation of   Responsibilities 3.1 and Large Non - Solvency II  Firms   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 3.1 relating to culture.  These Prescribed Responsibilities reflect the expectation set out in the PRA’s approach  documents that firms should have a culture that supports   their prudent management and builds on  the idea that boards and management of regulated firms should embed the principle of safety and  soundness in the cul ture of the whole organisation. 12  While the PRA acknowledges that a firm’s culture is a collective mat ter for the board (as noted  in the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) Code), these responsibilities seek to ensure that the CEO and  Chair of the board assume a leading role in the development and implementation of firms’ culture.  Large UK - ¬headquartered gro ups comprising multiple firms may wish to allocate the two  Prescribed Responsibilities relating to culture to the group CEO and Chair of the group board, as  opposed to the CEOs and Chairs of the boards of the individual legal entities, for instance, where  culture is a matter reserved for the group board. They are not, however, required or expected to do  so. In this situation, it may be appropriate for the group CEO and Chair of the group board to be  approved as Group Entity Senior Managers (SMF7) of each of   the firms in the group.  Statements of Responsibilities and Management Responsibilities Maps  Purpose of Statements of Responsibilities and Management Responsibilities Maps  In this SS, the record of the statement of the aspects of the affairs of a firm, for   which it is  intended that an individual is (or will be) responsible, and that is maintained by insurers for key  function holders (including Senior Managers) under Insurance   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5.4 and  Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Allocation   of Responsibilities 5.4, is referred to as a ‘Statement of  12   ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to insurance supervision’, paragraph 82, available at:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/pra - approach - documents - 2016 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   15  responsibilities’ (SoR). For Senior Managers, this SoR should include the statutory SoR that is  prepared by firms for the purpose of s60(2A) or s62A of FSMA.  SoRs and Management Responsibilities Ma ps (MRMs) should promote clarity and transparency  on the individual responsibilities of each key function holder (including Senior Managers) and a  firm’s (and, where relevant, group’s) management and governance arrangements.  SoRs and MRMs serve a variety   of purposes. In particular, they provide for a more targeted  assessment of the fitness and propriety of prospective and incumbent Senior Managers and key  function holders by allowing their competence, knowledge, experience, qualifications, training and,  wh ere relevant, proposed time commitment, to be measured against the responsibilities they have  been allocated.  SoRs and MRMs should not be regarded simply as regulatory returns, but should be seen as  valuable components of a firm’s internal corporate govern ance documentation and processes. As  such, the PRA expects SoRs and MRMs to be used by firms to aid the clarification, documentation,  embedding, and review of their internal corporate governance arrangements.  Examples of internal governance processes wher e SoRs and MRMs should be used include but  are not limited to:     succession planning and the induction of new SMFs and other key function holders;     the ongoing learning and development of incumbent key function holders and, where  appropriate, Certified   employees; and     the periodic monitoring and assessment of the effectiveness of governance arrangements which  firms are required to carry out under Conditions Governing Business 2.  SoRs and MRMs can help identify the Senior Manager or key function holder res ponsible for an  area if things go wrong. However, as stated in the PRA approach documents “the PRA’s preference is  to use its statutory powers to secure ex ante, remedial action”. 13  To ensure adherence to the letter and spirit of the relevant statutory and   regulatory  requirements on SoRs and MRMs, firms should ensure that they are drafted in a clear and complete  way with a consistent structure, and an appropriate and proportionate level of detail.  Indicators that firms should consider when evaluating the qua lity and effectiveness of their  SoRs and MRM include, but are not limited to:     the extent to which a firm’s SoRs and MRM are embedded and utilised in internal governance  processes and how valuable internal stakeholders find them in practice; and     the outcome   of relevant Internal Audit reviews.  13   ‘The Prudential Regulation Authority’s approach to insurance supervision’ (paragraph 106), available at:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/pra - approach - documents - 2016 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   16  Statements of Responsibilities  Completeness  As sections 60(2A - 2B) of FSMA state, SoRs must set out the areas of a firm’s regulated activities  that each Senior Manager is responsible for.  The Insurance   -   Allocation of Re sponsibilities and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Allocation of  Responsibilities Parts of the PRA Rulebook list a series of Prescribed Responsibilities which firms  must allocate among their Senior Managers.  Although Prescribed Responsibilities are a pivotal   feature of the PRA’s SMR in that they  represent areas which the PRA, as a prudential regulator, is specifically interested in, SoRs should  comprise more than a tick - box allocation of Prescribed Responsibilities, especially for large, complex  firms. Firms   should utilise section 3.2.2 of the SoR template to provide additional clarifications,  details, and explanations of the Prescribed Responsibilities they have allocated where it would be  necessary, or helpful, in understanding what the Senior Manager’s resp onsibilities are.  Moreover, SoRs should indicate whether a Senior Man ager or key function holder has:     overall responsibility for any business areas, activities, or management functions of the firm not  otherwise covered under the Prescribed   Responsibilities (’Overall Responsibility’). Annex 1G of  SYSC 4 in the FCA Handbook lists a number of indicative, non - exhaustive areas, activities and  functions to assist firms with this task. Overall Responsibilities should be set out in section 3.3 of  th e SoR template; and     additional responsibilities not covered under the Prescribed or Overall Responsibilities, which  should be set out in section 3.4 of the template (’Additional Responsibilities’). Typically, such  Additional Responsibilities will entail ma naging or overseeing material actions, deliverables and  projects which are specific to a firm and/or key function holder .  Firms are free to assign to a Senior Manager or key function holder, and include in their SoR,  additional responsibilities not covered   in the PRA’s rules. Additional responsibilities must not,  however, modify or qualify any responsibilities prescribed by the PRA.  Unlike Overall Responsibilities, which often describe permanent areas, activities, or  management functions in a firm, Addition al Responsibilities may often have a defined agreed or  expected completion date. Examples include:     material change management or transformation projects, including, but not limited to, a  significant overhaul of a firm’s IT systems, the management of aspect s relating to a complex  acquisition ,   or the authorisation of a new significant entity;     material remediation actions resulting from supervisory discussions, supervisory reviews, such  as a skilled persons review under section 166 of FSMA, or enforcement acti on;     responsibilities which other PRA rules or SSs require or expect firms to allocate to a Senior  Manager or key function holder;   and/or     responsibilities (other than Prescribed Responsibilities) assumed on an interim basis. For  instance, where an individua l has been given a time - limited approval or temporarily expanded  their remit to provide cover for an unforeseen departure . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   17  2.70A In deciding whether to include a given deliverable or task as an Additional Responsibility in the  SoR of a Senior Manager or key function holder, firms should take into account the expected  duration and materiality of the deliverable or task. It foll ows that not every project a key function  holder is responsible for should be listed in their SoR, only those meeting a minimum level of  prudential or strategic significance for the firm and with a minimum expected duration.  2.70B In the first instance, it   is the responsibility of firms to assess whether a deliverable is material  enough to warrant inclusion in a given SoR. However, the PRA generally expects the following  deliverables and tasks to be reflected in relevant SoRs:  •   actions linked to a change o f control or significant restructuring, such as a major acquisition,  corporate reorganisation, divestment, flotation, or Part VII transfer of business;  •   material or urgent actions requested in a Periodic Summary Meeting (PSM) letter;  •   material or urgent   actions recommended or required following a deep - dive by the PRA or  FCA, a Skilled Persons Review under Section 166 of FSMA, or an internal review by the firm;  and  •   material or urgent actions in response to or following enforcement by the PRA, FCA or othe r  regulators.  2.70C   The PRA expects firms to ‘cleanse’ SoRs periodically or whenever any that are Additional  Responsibilities are either deemed satisfactorily completed by the firm and the PRA or become less  significant.  While the SoRs of individuals perfo rming the same SMF across different firms will be inevitably  similar to some extent, the PRA expects SoRs (and MRMs) to reflect how the business model,  complexity, risk profile and size of each firm affect each key function holder’s responsibilities.  SoRs   that read like generic job descriptions and do not reflect firm - specific circumstances,  priorities, and projects are not consistent with the spirit of the SMR.  SoRs, and in particular, responsibilities included in the Other Responsibilities section, also  p rovide a common vehicle to document actions and undertakings which, in the past, may have been  recorded in ad - hoc attestations. While SoRs may not be appropriate to document certain types of  attestation, such as those which are backward - looking or not capa ble of being allocated to individual  key function holders, they provide a vehicle to consolidate and rationalise other attestations.  Clarity and level of detail  Firms should include free text in SoRs to clarify and elaborate on the responsibilities of key  function holders and Senior Managers.  However, free text in a SoR should not unduly complicate, dilute, or undermine the clarity of  the individual’s responsibilities.  The aim of this text should be to clarify, describe, and develop the responsibilities o f the  relevant individual by, for instance:     if a responsibility is shared, explaining how it applies to the different individuals sharing it in  practice; and 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   18     breaking down   certain responsibilities into   key component tasks. While the PRA does not expect  fi rms to list every task relating to every responsibility, some description of the tasks is expected,  particularly for certain Prescribed Responsibilities, which sometimes provide a high - level  description of an area likely to comprise multiple underlying key   deliverables.  To avoid the risk of SoRs becoming unduly complex, heavily caveated or unclear, the PRA has  suggested. in the Statement of Responsibilities template, a 300 word limit as a guide to the amount  of free text that firms should use to describe e ach responsibility which they allocate to a Senior  Manager (Prescribed, Overall and/or Additional). The PRA considers that 300 words should be  sufficient for firms to provide an appropriate level of detail on each responsibility they allocate.  However, sav e for smaller, less complex firms, it is equally likely that text significantly below the  suggested 300 words will fall below the level of detail necessary to appropriately facilitate  supervisory interactions.  Moreover, the PRA recognises that larger firm s commonly have more complex governance  arrangements, particularly if they are part of a group. There may be situations where a firm  legitimately needs to exceed the suggested 300 word limit for one, some, or all responsibilities of  Senior Managers or key   function holders. As long as the information is clear, relevant and useful to  facilitate supervisory interactions, the PRA will not discourage firms from exceeding the suggested  300 word limit.  However, the PRA also expects firms to avoid superfluous or un necessary text in SoRs. The aim  of free text in SoRs should be to elaborate on the areas which an individual is responsible for, rather  than on how that individual discharges their responsibilities or the generic competencies and skills  required to perform   that particular key function or SMF. This information can, nonetheless, be useful  in other contexts, such as the PRA’s initial assessment of the individual’s fitness and propriety, and  firms are encouraged to include it in supporting documentation such as   role profiles.  The responsibilities of key function holders, including Senior Managers, must be set out in their  SoRs and the firm’s MRM, which are the mandatory, standard documents required by FSMA and/or  the PRA Rulebook.  However, the PRA does not forb id or discourage firms from also including information about a  key function holder’s responsibilities in non - mandatory, internal, supporting documents, such as role  profiles, if they elect to do so, as long as this does not lead to the omission of such inf ormation from  the SoR and MRM.  In addition, role profiles and similar documents can provide valuable information in an  accessible format about a key function holder beyond what must be included in SoRs and MRMs,  such as:     a   description of the key competenci es, experience and expertise requirements of the role;     lists of key direct reports; and/or     committees below board level which the individual chairs or is a member of.  Consistency  The PRA expects firms to take reasonable steps to ensure that the information   they include in  the SoRs of different key function holders, including Senior Managers, is as consistent as possible in  terms of clarity, style, and level of detail particularly when dealing with SoRs of Senior Managers or  key function holders with similar   roles and levels of responsibility. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   19  The PRA acknowledges that there will be some variation in the level of detail of some SoRs  within a firm. For instance, the PRA expects the SoRs of Heads of Key Business Areas (SMF6)s and  Group Entity Senior Managers (S MF7s), which may apply to individuals performing a diverse range of  roles and influencing the firm in different ways, to contain fewer or, in some cases, no Prescribed  Responsibilities. Conversely, the PRA expects the amount of free text in the SoRs of SMF 6s and  SMF7s to be greater than in the SoRs of other SMFs as there are likely to be very few, if any,  commonalities or recurring responsibilities between SMF6s and SMF7s in different firms.  Likewise, the PRA expects the SoRs of NEDs in scope of the SMR to   be less extensive than those  of executive Senior Managers. Nonetheless, it is important that the SoRs of NEDs in scope of the  SMR provide at least some detail. Merely stating that an SMF10 - 13 is responsible for chairing a given  board committee in accordanc e with its terms of reference is unlikely to provide an appropriate level  of detail in many cases. The SoRs of non - executive SMFs should go into a somewhat greater level of  detail and break down the chairmanship of these key committees into more granular k ey tasks  (without allocating executive or quasi - executive responsibilities to the relevant NEDs). Examples of  additional detail which firms would be expected to include, if applicable, in the SoRs of NEDs in  scope of the SMR may include but are not limited   to:     the SID’s (SMF14) responsibility for leading the board (and/or Nominations Committee) in  implementing an orderly succession plan for the Chair of the   governing body ; and     the Chair of the Remuneration Committee’s responsibility for ensuring that the Co mmittee  discusses and approves buy - outs of variable remuneration (for new hires) and termination  packages (for outgoing employees) in specific, pre - determined circumstances, such as when  they exceed a certain amount.  Updating a Statement of Responsibilitie s  Section 62A of FSMA requires firms to submit a revised Statement of Responsibilities whenever  there is a significant change in the aspects of the authorised person’s affairs which the person is  responsible for managing in performing the function.  In dete rmining whether a change to a Senior Manager’s role and responsibilities is significant,  the PRA expects firms to consider all relevant factors, including but not limited to:     the importance to the firm of the responsibilities being given up or taken on;     w hether the change alters the seniority of the Senior Manager in the firm or group;     whether there are any changes to the identity, number, or seniority of individuals reporting to  the Senior Manager; and     whether there are any changes to the skills, experi ence, or knowledge required by the Senior  Manager.  Whether a significant change has taken place will be determined on a case - by - case basis.  However, the list below sets out non¬ - exhaustive examples of potential significant changes which, in  the PRA’s view , may require the submission of a revised Statement of Responsibilities:     a variation of the individual’s approval, either at the firm’s, the PRA’s, or the FCA’s initiative,  resulting in the imposition of a condition or time limit;     fulfilling or failing to   fulfil a condition on approval imposed by the PRA or FCA; 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   20     sharing or ceasing to share an SMF originally performed by one individual among two or more  individuals; and     the addition, reallocation, or removal of any of the following:  o   a PRA or FCA Prescribed   Responsibility;  o   responsibility for a function under SYSC 4.7.8R of the FCA Handbook (FCA Overall  Responsibility); or  o   any additional responsibility not covered above   (see also paragraphs 2.67 to 2.73) .  Management Responsibilities Maps (MRM s )  Firms are required by Insurance   -   Allocation of Responsibilities 5.1 and Large Non - Solvency II  Firms   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5.1 to develop and maintain an MRM. The purpose of an MRM  is to consolidate information on a firm’s management and governa nce arrangements into an  accessible, clear and comprehensive single source of reference. In this sense, an MRM can be  described as the governance equivalent of a business plan or an ORSA document.  Insurance   -   Allocation of Responsibilities 5 and Large No n - Solvency II Firms   –   Allocation of  Responsibilities 5 sets out the information that a firm’s MRM must include. In particular, firms are  required to ensure that the MRM includes:     aggregate information on the allocation of responsibilities to key function   holders as set out in  their individual, respective SoRs. Note, however, that it is not necessary for the MRM to  duplicate or restate all the information in each SoR;     the rationale for any shared or divided responsibilities and details of how each of the in dividuals  responsible is expected to discharge the shared responsibility in practice (without prejudice to  the expectations in paragraphs 2.50 to 2.56 above);     matters reserved for the board and the terms of reference of the key board committees,  including   their structures, membership, remit, interaction with other committees in the firm  and, if applicable, the group;     reporting lines of key function holders to individuals and committees in the firm and, if  applicable, the group, including those located over seas; and     where firms are part of a larger group, the interaction of a firm’s governance arrangements with  group governance arrangements (for example, in areas such as   internal codes of conduct and  remuneration policies), including the extent to which the   firm’s management and governance  arrangements are provided by, or shared with, other   group entities.  There is no template for MRMs and it is up to firms to develop and maintain an MRM that is  appropriate for and accurately reflects the structure, size and   complexity of the firm including,  where applicable, group governance arrangements.  Firms should determine the most effective method of clearly communicating the required  information in the MRM. This is likely to include a combination of text and visual ai ds, such as  organograms, group structure diagrams or organisation charts. Irrespective of how a firm chooses to  present the required information, firms should ensure that the information presented in the MRM is 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   21  clear, complete and meets the requirements in   Insurance   -   Allocation of Responsibilities and Large  Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Allocation of Responsibilities.  A firm’s MRM should include sufficient information to be able to form a clear understanding of  how the management and governance arrangements of t he firm work. The PRA would normally  expect to see that:     there is an effective and clear governance framework in place, with clear reporting lines of  accountability;     there is no ambiguity over exactly who is carrying out the different areas of work and who   is  responsible for them;     there are no obvious gaps in the responsibilities allocated to individual senior managers and  other key function holders;     it is clear where critical decisions and judgments are being made, where individuals making  these decisions   should be accountable;     it is clear from the SoRs (in the MRM) that individuals are expected to observe relevant conduct  standards applicable to them; and     responsibility for the review and oversight of any outsourced activities is clearly and suitably  alloc ated.  The Duty   of Responsibility under the SMR  This section sets out how the PRA will apply section 66B(5) of FSMA (also referred to as ‘the  Duty of Responsibility’) in practice.  The PRA will consider the specific facts of each situation which may fall wit hin the Duty of  Responsibility and will act as it considers appropriate in light of those facts. Consequently, this  statement does not establish minimum standards or safe - harbours. The expectations and examples  below are indicative, non - binding and non - exh austive and there may be other considerations, not  listed, that are relevant.  Statutory framework  For the purposes of disciplinary action by the PRA under section 66B of FSMA, a person is guilty  of misconduct if any of three conditions are met. One of the se arises from the Duty of Responsibility.  It states that a person will be guilty of misconduct if the PRA finds that all of the following four  criteria are met:     the person is or was a Senior Manager in a PRA - authorised firm;     there has been or continues to be a contravention of a ‘Relevant Requirement’ (as defined in  section 66B(4) of FSMA) by the firm;     the Senior Manager was, at the relevant time, responsible for the management of any of the  firm’s activities in relation to w hich the contravention occurred; and     the Senior Manager did not take such steps as a person in the Senior Manager’s position could  reasonably be expected to take to avoid the contraven tion occurring (or continuing). 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   22  The Senior Manager will not be guilty o f misconduct under section 66B(5) if the PRA finds that  they had taken such steps as a person in their position could reasonably be expected to take to avoid  the contravention occurring (or continuing) (‘Reasonable Steps criterion’).  The PRA may take disc iplinary action under section 66 of FSMA where it appears to the PRA  that the person is guilty of misconduct and the PRA is satisfied that it is appropriate in all the  circumstances to take action against them.  As with any disciplinary action that the PRA   takes under section 66 of FSMA, the statutory  process involves a period during which the person involved is able to make representations.  Under sections 66B(2) and (3) of FSMA, individuals, including Senior Managers, can also be  guilty of misconduct if th ey breach a Conduct Standard or are knowingly concerned in a  contravention of a Relevant Requirement by the firm. This SS does not explicitly consider these two  potential grounds for misconduct. However, in respect of any individual situation, the PRA may  consider whether the individual is guilty of misconduct by any of sections 66B(2), (3) or (5), solely or  in combination. The PRA will consider each situation on its facts. There may be situations where a  Senior Manager may be guilty of misconduct by virtue   of a breach of the Conduct Standards under  section 66B(2), as well as under the Duty of Responsibility.  There is no distinction made in FSMA between executive and non - executive Senior Managers  in relation to the Duty of Responsibility. However, the PRA’s   ability to apply the Duty of  Responsibility hinges on the scope of that responsibility in the first place and the PRA recognises that  the responsibilities of NEDs in scope of the SMR are usually more limited than for executive  management. These difference s should be recognised in their respective SoRs.  The Duty of Responsibility recognises that individual Senior Managers should be held  accountable for their individual contributions to collective decisions and their implementation  insofar as those contribu tions are in scope of their Senior Manager responsibilities.  Description of the operation of the Duty of Responsibility  The Duty of Responsibility arises where all the elements in section 66B(5) of FSMA are met.  The first element, whether the individual   is or was a Senior Manager at the time of the  breach, will be a question of fact.  The second element is that there has been, or continues to be, a contravention of a Relevant  Requirement by the firm. The contravention does not need to be material or sign ificant and in taking  disciplinary action under section 66 of FSMA, the PRA must be satisfied that it is appropriate in all  the circumstances to take action against the person, and such circumstances may include the nature  and seriousness of the contravent ion.  The third element is that the Senior Manager was, at the relevant time, responsible for the  management of any of the firm’s activities in relation to which the contravention occurred.  Depending on the nature and extent of the firm’s breach, and the   scope of the individual  Senior Manager’s responsibilities, it is possible that more than one Senior Manager could be  responsible. In such circumstances, the PRA will consider whether it is appropriate to consider  sanctioning one, some, or all such Senior M anagers under the Duty of Responsibility. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   23  Whether a Senior Manager is or is not responsible for managing any of the firm’s relevant  activities will be a question of fact. SoRs and Management Responsibilities Maps should be relevant  evidence, but the PRA m ay look beyond these if it considers it appropriate.  The PRA’s approach to the Reasonable Steps criterion  The PRA can only take action under section 66 of FSMA if it appears to the PRA that a Senior  Manager is guilty of misconduct and the PRA is satisfied   that it is appropriate in all the circumstances  to take action against the Senior Manager. A person will not be guilty of misconduct under the Duty  of Responsibility if they have taken such steps as a person in their position could reasonably be  expected   to take to avoid the contravention occurring (or continuing).  The individual will be able to submit evidence and make representations on this point. The  PRA would normally expect to engage in dialogue with the individual prior to issuing an initial  Decisi on Notice.  Section 66B(5)(d) involves the PRA assessing (a) the steps that the specific Senior Manager  actually took, against (b) such steps as the PRA considers that a Senior Manager, in that position,  could reasonably have been expected to take to avoid   the contravention occurring (or continuing).  The PRA’s expectations of the steps in ‘(b)’ will necessarily depend on the circumstances as they  existed at the time. It is not the PRA’s intention to apply standards retrospectively or with the  benefit of hin dsight. However, examples of the considerations that the PRA may consider in forming  its view of ‘(b)’ can include:     the size, scale and complexity of the firm;     what the Senior Manager actually knew, or a Senior Manager in that position ought to have  know n (taking into account, among other factors, the length of time they have been in the role  and handover arrangements to those new in a role);     what expertise and competence the Senior Manager had, or ought to have possessed, at the  time to perform their sp ecific Senior Management Function;     what steps the Senior Manager could have taken, considering what alternative actions might  have been open to the Senior Manager at the time and the timeliness within which they could  have acted;     the actual responsibilities of that Senior Manager and the relationship between those  responsibilities and the responsibilities of other Senior Managers in the firm (including in relation  to any joint responsibilities or matrix - management structures);     whe ther the Senior Manager delegated any functions, taking into account that any such  delegation should be appropriately arranged, managed and monitored;     the overall circumstances and environment at the firm and more widely, in which the Senior  Manager was o perating at the time. For example, the PRA may consider whether the way in  which they prioritised matters was informed by an appropriate risk assessment and how they  responded to new developments.  In relation to ‘(a)’ and the steps that a Senior Manager a ctually took to avoid the  contravention occurring or continuing, examples of the steps that might be considered to be  reasonable actions, depending on the circumstances, could include: 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   24     pre - emptive actions to prevent a breach occurring, including any initi al reviews of the business or  business area on taking up a Senior Management function;     implementing, policing and reviewing appropriate policies and procedures;     awareness of relevant requirements and standards of the regulatory system;     investigations or   reviews of the Senior Manager’s area of responsibilities;     where a breach is continuing, any response taken to that breach;     structuring and control of day - to - day operations, including ensuring any delegations are  managed and reviewed appropriately. This   includes in relation to any ‘matrix - management’  arrangements;     obtaining appropriate internal management information, and critically interrogating and  monitoring that information;     raising issues, reviewing issues, and following them up with relevant staff , committees and  boards;     seeking and obtaining appropriate expert advice or assurance, whether internal or external;     ensuring that the firm and/or relevant area has adequate resources, and that these are  appropriately deployed, including for risk and con trol functions; and     awareness of relevant external developments, including key risks.  Evidence that the PRA might seek to obtain in respect of these kinds of matters could include:     board and board committee minutes;     minutes of other internal meetings;     SoRs and Management Responsibilities Maps;     organisation charts and information on reporting lines;     any other internal materials, for example, emails or telephone recordings; and     regulatory corres pondence and interviews. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   25  2A   The Senior Managers Regime   (SMR)  2A.1 This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms should act when deciding which roles  are ‘certification functions’ (as defined in the Glossary of the PRA Rulebook) requiring a certificate to  be issued by the firm to the person performi ng the function. It should be read alongside the  Insurance   -   Certification, and Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety Parts of the Rulebook, 14   and the  provisions of Part V of FSMA, together with Article 275 of the EU Delegated Regulation  (‘Remuneration Requirem ents’).  Relationship between the Certification Regime and the Remuneration  Requirements  2A.2 The PRA has specified certification functions to include the functions performed by the  individual employees having responsibility for a ‘key function’, ie employ ees who are ‘key function  holders’ (KFHs).  2A.3 In addition, for ‘large firms’, certification functions include functions performed by ‘material  risk - takers’ (MRTs), ie those staff whose professional activities have a material impact on a firm’s risk  profi le. SS10/16 ‘Solvency II: Remuneration requirements’ 15   sets out some PRA expectations around  how Solvency II firms may develop suitable criteria for identifying MRTs, for the purpose of  application of the Remuneration Requirements.  2A.4 However, it should b e noted that some individuals classified as MRTs under the Remuneration  Requirements will not fall within the Certification Regime. In particular, anyone who performs a (PRA  or FCA) SMF will not be treated as performing a certification function for that fi rm. 16   In addition,  NEDs will not fall within the Certification Regime (unless, in addition to their NED function, they also  perform an additional function which is a certification function, which the PRA would not expect  would normally be the case).  2A.5 Th ere may also be employees who are classified as MRTs but who are not sufficiently involved  in a regulated activity of the firm to meet the statutory test for a certification function. This may, for  example, be the case where the individual is employed by a n overseas subsidiary of the UK -  authorised firm; such a person may be a material risk taker under the Remuneration Requirements  as these will apply at group, parent undertaking and subsidiary undertaking levels, including those  subsidiaries established out side the European Economic Area (EEA). But if they have no involvement  in a regulated activity of the UK - authorised firm, the effect of Insurance   -   Certification 2.2 is that  they would not be performing a certification function.  2A.6 In an insurance firm,   only those individuals who are key function holders, or who are MRTs at  ‘large firms’, could be performing a certification function specified by the PRA. However, the FCA’s  Certification Regime is potentially wider and may also include other individuals wh o are not in scope  of the PRAs regime.  14   For large NDFs, the corresponding Rulebook parts are   Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Certification, and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -  Fitness and Propriety  15   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/solvency - 2 - remuneration - requirements - ss .  16   It is however possible that an indi vidual may perform roles at more than one regulated firm, in which case it would be possible for  that individual to perform a senior management function at one firm and a certifica tion function at another firm. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   26  2A.7 T he PRA would expect that firms would normally consider as a minimum 17   whether individuals  with responsibility for the following functions or activities should be considered to be KFHs (or MRTs  for ‘large firms’), and hence in a certification function (if these individuals do not perform a SMF):  •   Investment management (incl uding reconciliation, valuation, or reporting, of asset holdings  or positions).  •   Claims management.  •   Underwriting and pricing of products.  •   Reinsurance.  •   Capital management.  •   Liquidity management.  •   Operational systems and controls.  •   Information Tech nology (IT).  •   Managing material risk takers (for ‘large firms’).  Identifying functions and describing them in certificates  2A.8 The PRA’s approach to specifying certification functions makes any function performed by a key  function holder for a firm, or b y a MRT for a ‘large firm’, a certification function (to the extent that  the function will require the employee to be involved in a regulated activity of the firm, and  provided that the employee is not performing any controlled function for the firm, and i s not a non -  executive director of the firm).  2A.9 However, this does not mean that the PRA expects firms to issue multiple certificates to each  employee who is in a certification function. Rather, in a certificate, a firm may describe the function  performe d by an employee in broad terms, and without listing all the activities that function may  involve. A firm should assess whether the employee is fit and proper to perform all aspects of the  function as described by a certificate. The factors the PRA require s a firm to take into account when  making this assessment are set out in the Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency  II Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety Parts of the Rulebook, and in Chapter 4 of this supervisory  statement.  Moving functions   during the certification year  2A.10 In cases where a certified employee’s role changes to involve a new certification function part  way through the twelve   month period for which their certificate is valid, and if that new function  may have different requi rements relating to personal characteristics, the level of competence,  knowledge and experience, qualifications or training, the PRA expects the firm to assess whether the  employee is fit and proper to perform that new function before they start. A firm sh ould not wait  17   This is not though an exhaustive list of   possible ‘certification functions’. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   27  until the point of annual reassessment to determine whether the employee is fit and proper for the  new function.  Associated requirements in FSMA  2A.11 In addition to the rules in the Insurance   –   Certification and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -  Certification Parts of the PRA Rulebook, firms should also take account of section 63E ( Certification  of employees by Authorised Persons ) and section 63F ( Issuing of certificates ) of FSMA; for example,  in relation to the definition of an ‘employee’, the   content of a certificate, the period for which a  certificate is valid, the procedure to be followed in the event of a refusal by a firm to issue a  certificate and record keeping.  Application of Conduct Standards and associated notification  requirements  Thi s chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how individuals who are subject to the Conduct  Standards in the Insurance   –   Conduct Standards and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct  Standards Parts of the PRA Rulebook should comply with them. However, this   is not an exhaustive  statement of the standards required to comply with the Conduct Standards.  Persons and activities to which the PRA Conduct Standards apply  The Insurance   —   Conduct Standards and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards Parts  of th e PRA Rulebook applies directly to a persons who is performing either a SMF specified by the  PRA, or a CF specified by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that is a ‘relevant senior  management function’ as defined in the PRA Rulebook, or who is responsib le for a ‘key function’.  These persons will be required by this Part to comply with all these standards.  3.2A In addition, all other employees performing a certification function specified by the PRA, along  with ‘Conduct Rules NEDs’, are required directly   by these Parts of the PRA Rulebook to comply with  Insurance‐Conduct Standards 3.1‐3.3 or Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards 3.1 - 3.3.  ‘Conduct Rules NEDs’ are also required by these Parts of the PRA Rulebook to comply with Insurance  -   Conduct   Standards 3.7‐3.8 or Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards 3.7 - 3.8. Employees  performing Certification functions are subject to the rules regardless of whether the firm has issued  a certificate to them or not.  3.2B Where an employee is performing   a function that would have been an SMF but for the rule 18  which provides a twelve - week grace period to cover absences which are temporary or reasonably  unforeseen, the effect of the PRA rules 19   is to apply the Individual Conduct Standards (but not the  Seni or Manager Conduct Standards) directly to that employee. This means that the employee is not  held to the same standards as a permanent Senior Manager, but is still required to comply with the  more general standards set out in the Individual Conduct Standar ds.  In accordance with Insurance   —   Fitness and Propriety 2.3 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Fitness and Propriety 2.3, the relevant Conduct Standards in Insurance   —   Conduct Standards 3 and  Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -   Conduct Standards 3 should also b e taken into account by firms and  groups when assessing on an ongoing basis the fit and proper status of all those persons who are  18   Insurance   -   Senior Management Functions 2.4 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Senior Management Functions 2.4.  19   Insurance   -   Conduct Standards 1.1(6)(f) and 2.1B, and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards   1.1(6)(f) and 2.1B. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   28  effectively running the firm or group, in an SMF, performing a certification function, or performing  another key function for   the firm or group.  Application of the Conduct Standards  In assessing whether an individual’s conduct was either consistent with or complied with a  Conduct Standard, the PRA expects the context in which a course of conduct was undertaken to be  taken into a ccount, including the:     precise circumstances of the individual case;     characteristics of the particular function performed by   the   individual in question; and     behaviour to be expected in that function.  A person will only be in breach of any of the Conduct   Standards where they are personally  culpable. Personal culpability arises where:     a person’s conduct was deliberate; or     the person’s standard of conduct was below that which would be reasonable in all the  circumstances.  In accordance with Insurance   —   Fit ness and Propriety 2.3 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Fitness and Propriety 2.3, the PRA expects firms and groups to have suitable procedures for  monitoring the conduct of individuals who are performing a key function or a certification function ,  and t o take relevant action if these individuals do not observe these Conduct Standards. For this  purpose, the PRA expects firms and groups to take all reasonable steps to gather and consider  information which may indicate the extent to which individuals are in   compliance with these  Conduct Standards.  Where a firm or group identifies any matter which might be relevant to an assessment of  whether an individual who is performing such a function is fit and proper, including a potential  failure to observe a Conduct   Standard, it should promptly and fully investigate the position and take  appropriate action, including complying with any obligation to notify the PRA (see the notifications  section of this chapter).  The PRA expects that the Conduct Standards apply only to   an individual’s conduct in relation to  the activities of the firm or group for which they are working. These standards do not relate to a  person’s actions in their private life if those actions are unrelated to the firm’s activities and the PRA  would not   generally expect to assess such actions against these standards. However, the PRA notes  that an individual’s wider behaviour could affect their ability to follow these standards more  generally. The way in which a person behaves in their private life may th en be relevant to any  assessment, by the PRA or by the firm itself, of whether that person is, or remains, fit and proper.  All persons performing a key function or a certification function should be required by the firm  to observe Individual Conduct   Standards 1, 2 and 3. 20   This may be required through a staff  handbook, and then through any subsequent staff contract updates. The PRA expects these Conduct  Standards to be promulgated suitably through the organisation, and for the firm to take steps to  20   In accordance with Insurance   –   Conduct Standards 2.2 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards 2.2. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   29  en sure that all relevant staff are aware of their obligation to observe these standards. The PRA  expects that they should also be taken into account when setting the relevant objectives (including  any expected behaviours) for individuals each year.  Individu al Conduct Standards 21  Individual   Conduct Standards 2 : ‘ You must act with due skill, care and diligence .’  The PRA expects all individuals who are performing a key function or a certification function to  exercise their business skills with appropriate levels   of attention and care; and to provide proper and  adequate explanations about the activities they are undertaking, when requested by a senior  manager or director of the firm or the group.  A person who is effectively running a firm or is responsible for ano ther key function is a key  function holder. A key function holder may, but will not necessarily, perform a CF that is a PRA SMF  or an FCA CF. The PRA expects a key function holder to understand the business for which they are  responsible. Key function hold ers are unlikely to be experts in all aspects of a complex financial  services business. However, the PRA expects that they should understand and inform themselves  about the business sufficiently to understand the key risks relating to a firm’s insurance, i nvestment  or other business activities.  The PRA expects a key function holder to require explanations from those who report to them,  whenever they have material concerns about the identification, measurement or control of risks  borne by the firm. Such conc erns could for example arise in the following circumstances:     business is undertaken (or an investment made) that is expected to be unusually profitable  (relative to the risks expected by the firm);     t he profits are particularly volatile; or     the business   involves risks for the firm that are either beyond those reasonably anticipated in  the business plan, or beyond the firm’s normal risk tolerance limits.  Where those explanations are implausible or unsatisfactory, the PRA expects the key function  holder to   take steps to test the veracity of those explanations.  Individual   Conduct Standard 3 : ‘ You must be open and co - operative with the FCA, the PRA and other  regulators .’  The PRA expects a person to use their firm’s mechanisms for reporting information to the  regulators. Relevant factors in assessing whether a person has followed Individual Conduct Standard  3 include:     whether a person has provided information into such mec hanisms in an appropriate manner;     whether the person has taken steps to influence a decision so as not to report to the regulator  concerned;  21   Individual Conduct Standard 1 is: ‘You must act with integrity’. The PRA does not expect to have to describe what is   meant by acting  with integrity. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   30     whether the person has acted in a way intended to obstruct the reporting of information to the  regulator concerne d;     where relevant to the person’s role, the way in which the person has operated, managed or  overseen those mechanisms; and     the way in which a person has responded to requests from a relevant regulator.  Conduct Standards for key function holders  In acc ordance with rule 2.2 in the Insurance   –   Conduct Standards and Large Non - Solvency II  Firms   –   Conduct Standards Parts of the Rulebook, ‘Notified NEDs’, should be required by the firm to  observe Individual Conduct Standards 1 - 3 and Senior Manager Conduct Sta ndards 4 - 5. Similarly, all  other key function holders should be required by the firm to observe Individual Conduct Standards  1 - 3 and Senior Manager Conduct Standards 1 - 5. The PRA expects that observance of these Conduct  Standards should therefore normally   be included within the terms and conditions for the  appointment of key function holders, and in the Statement of Responsibilities that must be  maintained (and signed by the individual) under Insurance   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5.4 and  Large Non - Solv ency II Firms   –   Allocation of Responsibilities 5.4.  The factors the PRA expects to be taken into account when assessing whether a key function  holder has followed Senior Manager Conduct Standards 1 - 5, include:     whether the person exercised reasonable care when considering the information available;     whether the person reached a reasonable conclusion upon which to act;     the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s business;     the person’s role and responsibility;   and     the knowledge the person had, or should have had, of regulatory concerns, if any.  Senior Manager Conduct Standard 1 ‘ You must take reasonable steps to ensure that the business of  the firm for which you are responsible is controlled effectively’ .  If   the strategy of the business is to enter higher‐risk areas, then the degree of control and  strength of monitoring reasonably required within the business will be higher. In organising the  business for which they are responsible, a key function holder shou ld bear this in mind.  The PRA expects the organisation of the business, and the responsibilities of those within it, to  be clearly defined. Reporting lines should be clear to staff. Where staff have dual reporting lines,  there is a greater need to ensure   that the responsibility and accountability of each line manager is  clearly set out and understood. The PRA would expect that for each MRT within a ‘large firm’, there  would be a nominated key function holder who has responsibility for the oversight of the   activities  of that MRT.  Senior   Manager Conduct Standard 2 :‘ You must take reasonable steps to ensure that the business of  the firm for which you are responsible complies with the relevant requirements and standards of the  regulatory system ’.  The PRA expect s a key function holder to take reasonable steps both to ensure the firm’s  compliance with the relevant requirements and standards of the regulatory system, and to ensure 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   31  that all staff are aware of the need for compliance. For this purpose, the PRA expect s key function  holders not merely to ensure that firms meet the letter of the requirements, but also not to attempt  to game them by engaging in creative compliance or regulatory arbitrage designed to mask the  riskiness of activities or business models. Rat her, key function holders should maintain sight of the  overriding principles of safety and soundness and the protection of policyholders, and act  accordingly.  A key function holder need not personally put in place the systems of control in the business;  w hether they do this will depend on their role and responsibilities. However, the PRA expects the  key function holder to take reasonable steps to ensure that the business has operating procedures  and systems which include well‐defined steps for complying wi th the detail of relevant requirements  and standards of the regulatory system and for ensuring that the business is run prudently. The  nature and extent of the systems of control that are required will depend upon the relevant  requirements and standards of   the regulatory system, and the nature, scale and complexity of the  business.  Senior   Manager Conduct Standard 3 :‘ You must take reasonable steps to ensure that any  delegation of your responsibilities is to an appropriate person and that you oversee the  dis charge of the delegated responsibility effectively ’.  The PRA does not expect a key function holder personally to manage the business on a day‐to‐  day basis. The extent to which this is done by the key function holder will depend on a number of  factors, inc luding the nature, scale and complexity of the business and their position within it. The  larger and more complex the business, the greater the need for clear and effective delegation and  reporting lines, which may involve documenting the scope of that del egation and the reporting lines  in writing. The PRA expects a key function holder to take reasonable steps to ensure that systems  are in place which result in issues being addressed at the appropriate level.  In accordance with this standard, the PRA belie ves that the authority for dealing with an issue  or a part of the business should only be delegated to an individual or individuals by a key function  holder when they have reasonable grounds for believing that the delegate has the necessary  capacity, compe tence, knowledge, seniority or skill to deal with the issue or to take authority for  dealing with that part of the business.  Although a key function holder may delegate the resolution of an issue, or authority for dealing  with a part of the business, they   cannot delegate their oversight responsibility. The PRA expects that  person to maintain a suitable level of understanding of the delegated activity, supervise and monitor  the person to whom the responsibility has been delegated, and ensure that they recei ve reports on  delegated matters and question those reports where appropriate. Where an issue raises significant  concerns, the PRA expects a key function holder to act clearly and decisively.  Senior   Manager Conduct Standard 4 :‘ You must disclose appropriate ly any information of which the  FCA or PRA would reasonably expect notice ’.  This Conduct Standard applies, in addition to Individual Conduct Standard 1, to a key function  holder. Individual Conduct Standard 1 relates primarily to responses from individual s to requests  from a relevant regulator and to an individual’s involvement in a firm’s mechanisms for reporting to  a regulator. However, Senior Manager ‐ Conduct Standard 4 imposes a greater duty on key function  holders to disclose any information the rele vant regulator would reasonably expect. This includes  making a disclosure in the absence of any request or enquiry from the relevant regulator. By virtue  of their position, the PRA expects that a key function holder is likely both to have access to greater 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   32  amounts of information of potential regulatory importance and to have the expertise to recognise  when this may be something of which the PRA or FCA would reasonably expect notice.  The PRA does not expect a key function holder to disclose information whic h the person knows  that the firm or another senior manager has already disclosed to the PRA, for example through  having seen a copy of the relevant communication.  The PRA expects that, in disclosing appropriately, the person will need to disclose:     suffic ient information for the regulators to be able to understand the full implications of the  matter being disclosed;     in a timely manner; and     to an appropriate contact at the PRA or FCA (or both), which may include the firm’s usual  supervisory contact(s).  Senior   Manager Conduct Standard 5 :‘ When exercising your responsibilities, you must pay due regard  to the interests of current and potential future policyholders in ensuring the provision by the firm of  an appropriate degree of protection for their insured   benefits ’.  The PRA expects a key function holder to ensure that appropriate attention is given to the need  to ensure that the firm will continue to be able to provide the benefits that it has committed to  provide for its policyholders. This is likely to b e achieved primarily through taking relevant actions, in  line with the PRA’s Conduct Standards, to ensure that the firm meets all the PRA’s Fundamental  Rules 22   and continues to meet the Threshold Conditions. 23  In particular, the PRA expects key function hol ders to exercise sound and prudent management  over the areas of the business for which they are responsible. This would be exemplified through  ensuring the application of suitable due diligence over any major transactions that are contemplated  by the firm   or group, and for which a key function holder has a responsibility. Key function holders  should also apply due care and attention in the appropriate management of any conflicts of interest  within a firm or group.  Application of the Conduct Standards to NE Ds in scope of the   SMR   and Notified NEDs  NEDs who are subject to pre‐approval by the PRA or the FCA, are directly subject to all the  Conduct Standards, including those applicable only to Senior Managers. Conduct Rules NEDs are  directly subject to Individu al Conduct Standards 1 - 3 and Senior Manager Conduct Standards 4 - 5. As  was the case under the APR, breaches of the Conduct Standards by NEDs in an SMF, or by Conduct  Rules NEDs, are directly enforceable by the PRA using its powers under FSMA.  Firms are also   required by Insurance ‐ Conduct Standards 2.2 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Conduct Standards 2.2 to require that all members of their governing body, including all Notified  NEDs, observe Individual Conduct Standards 1 - 3 and Senior Manager Conduct Sta ndards 4 - 5.  Some Conduct Standards apply to NEDs in respect of their limited duties only. For instance, the  Chair of the Remuneration Committee would be likely to discharge their responsibilities under  Insurance‐Conduct Standards 3.2 if they take reasona ble steps to ensure that the Remuneration  22   Fundamental Rules (FR3) in the PRA Rulebook;   fshandbook.info/FS/prarulebook.jsp .  23   The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Threshold Conditions) Order 2013;  www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/555/contents/made . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   33  Committee (in a Solvency II firm) complies with the requirements of the EU Solvency II Delegated  Regulation (and any specific and relevant requirements imposed under section 55M of FSMA), and  remains free from undu e executive interference in decision‐making.  By contrast, certain Conduct Standards, such as the duty to act with integrity, apply to NEDs  and executive Senior Managers in very similar ways.  The requirements to ‘be open and co‐operative with the FCA, the   PRA and other regulators’  (Individual ‐ Conduct Standard 3) and ‘disclose appropriately any information of which the FCA or  PRA would reasonably expect notice’ (Senior Manager Conduct Standard 4) are particularly  important for NEDs. As the PRA Approach Do cument states, if any director has ‘concerns about the  firm or its management and governance, the PRA will expect them to press for action to remedy the  matter and, if those concerns are no t addressed, to alert the PRA.’ 24  Notifications by firms to the PRA   in relation to the application of Conduct  Standards by individual key function holders  The PRA considers that a breach of Conduct Standards by a key function holder, including  details of any related disciplinary action taken by a firm against that key function holder, would  generally reasonably be expected to be material to the assessment of   an individual’s fitness and  propriety. Therefore, in accordance with Insurance ‐ Fitness and Propriety 4.3, Large Non - Solvency II  Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety 4.3, and Fundamental Rules 7 in the PRA Rulebook, the PRA expects  insurance firms and groups to   notify the PRA if they know that a current (or former) key function  holder has not complied with those Conduct Standards.  Where a firm has reported a breach of a Conduct Standard, and subsequently takes disciplinary  action against the person for matters   relating to the breach, the firm should make a separate  notification to the PRA of the disciplinary action.  The PRA expects that firms will report to the PRA and the FCA details of known breaches,  including those which do not come to the firm’s attention   until after the person concerned has left  the firm. Firms should consider whether the person was a key function holder for the firm at the  time the breach is thought to have occurred (rather than at the point at which it came to the firm’s  attention).  Not ifications by firms to the PRA (Notifications 11)  The notification requirements in Notifications 11 complement and do not override existing  requirements according to which firms have to report information to the PRA, including those for  key function holder s under Insurance ‐ Fitness and Propriety 4.3 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –  Fitness and Propriety 4.3, as described in paragraphs 3.34 - 3.36 above, or Fundamental Rule 7 of the  PRA Rulebook.  The obligation to make a notification under section 64C (‘Requ irement for relevant authorised  persons to notify regulator of disciplinary action’) of FSMA applies notwithstanding any agreement  (for example a ‘COT 3’ Agreement settled by the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service) or  any other arrangements ent ered into by a firm and an employee upon termination of the  24   Se e paragraph 88 of the PRA’s approach to insurance supervision’, June 2014:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2014/pra - approach - documents - 2014 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   34  employee’s employment. A firm should not enter into any such arrangements or agreements that  could conflict with its obligations under this section.  The provision of information to a regulator whi ch is false or misleading may be a criminal  offence under section 398 of FSMA.  Where a notification under the Notifications 11 rules relates to a person performing an SMF, a  firm should have regard to the urgency and significance of a matter and, if approp riate, should also  notify its usual supervisory contact at the PRA by telephone or by other prompt means of  communication, before submitting a written notification. Oral notifications should be given directly  to the firm’s usual supervisory contact at the   PRA. An oral notification left with another person or  left on a voicemail or other automatic messaging service is not considered appropriate.  The PRA is entitled to rely on any information it receives from a firm and to consider any  notification received u nder Notifications 11 as being made by a person authorised by the firm to do  so. A firm should therefore consider whether it needs to put procedures in place to ensure that only  appropriate employees make notifications under Notifications 11 on its behalf   to the PRA.  Assessing fitness and propriety  This chapter set s out the factors that the PRA:     will take into account when assessing whether an individual is fit and proper to perform a SMF;  and     expects firms to take into account when assessing whether an in dividual is fit and proper to  perform a SMF or NED function   or a certification function specified in the PRA rules, or some  other key function.  Assessing fitness and propriety  In assessing whether an individual is fit and proper to be effectively running a firm or to be  performing another key function or certification function, firms and groups should apply the rules in  Insurance   —   Fitness and Propriety 2 and Large Non - Solvency   II Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety 2.  Solvency II firms and groups should also apply the EU Solvency II Delegated Regulation; and have  regard to the EIOPA Guidelines on Systems of Governance.  The PRA will also expect firms and groups to have regard in their   assessments of fitness and  propriety to the person’s:     honesty, integrity and reputation;     competence and capability; and     financial soundness.  4.3A Insurers must be run by people who are competent to fill their roles. This means ensuring that  individuals   have appropriate expertise and experience and, in the case of non - executive directors,  give sufficient time to fulfil their obligations to a high standard. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   35  The PRA will likewise consider each of the factors in paragraphs 4.2 to 4.3A when assessing  whether   an individual is fit and proper to be effectively running a firm or to be responsible for  another key function.  In determining a person’s honesty, integrity and reputation, the PRA will have regard to all  matters which may have arisen either in the United   Kingdom or elsewhere and which the PRA  considers relevant to the requirements and standards of the regulatory system.  For example, conviction for a criminal offence will not automatically mean an application will be  rejected. The PRA proposes to treat ea ch candidate’s application on a case‐by‐case basis, having  regard to a range of factors which may include, but are not limited to the:     seriousness of, and circumstances surrounding, the offence;     explanation offered by the convicted person;     relevance of   the offence to the proposed role;     passage of time since the offence was committed; and     evidence of the individual's rehabilitation.  When determining a person’s financial soundness, the PRA will not normally require a person  notified to them as being resp onsible for a key function to supply a statement of assets or liabilities.  The PRA does not expect a person being of limited financial means, in itself, to affect their suitability  to effectively run a firm or perform a key function or certification functi on.  The PRA expects a firm or group to take a similar approach to that set out in paragraphs 4.5 to  4.7 above when assessing whether a person is fit and proper to run a firm or perform a key function  or certification function effectively.  In relation to p roposed new appointees to SMFs and for the appointment of other new ‘key  function holders’, the PRA expects the regulatory references, along with the current Financial  Services Register, to be an important independent source of information for firms about   the  suitability of a person’s past business conduct. For other proposed new appointees, it is  acknowledged that there may only be limited independent information available on a person’s past  business conduct that can be taken into account.  Firms may, howe ver, wish to consider whether internal procedures such as pre - employment  questionnaires for candidates might be relevant to elicit information on past business conduct for  these purposes. Where a firm becomes aware of information which may indicate that as pects of a  person’s past business conduct might be relevant to an assessment of whether an individual is ‘fit  and proper’, the PRA expects the firm to make reasonable enquiries to establish the circumstances  of that conduct and its relevance (if any) to th e individual’s fitness and propriety.  For the ongoing assessment of fitness and propriety of individuals, the PRA believes that most  firms will already have a regular cycle of appraisals and performance reviews for their staff that is  likely to provide an   appropriate baseline for this assessment. Additional checks may be deemed  appropriate outside of this process, taking account of the nature and level of an individual’s  responsibilities within the organisation, and of any other relevant information. For t he purpose of  such checks, the PRA expects firms and groups to take all reasonable steps to gather and consider  information which may be relevant to an individual’s business conduct. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   36  Criminal background checks  In order to meet the requirement in Insuranc e   —   Fitness and Propriety 2.4 and Large Non -  Solvency II Firms   –   Fitness and Propriety 2.4 to make a criminal record check, the PRA expects a firm  to get an application form from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) or an umbrella body (a  registered bod y that gives access to DBS checks) in England and Wales. There is an equivalent  procedure in Scotland (involving Disclosure Scotland) and Northern Ireland (involving AccessNI). If  the candidate is employed by a contractor, the PRA expects that the firm may   ask the contractor to  obtain the certificate. The PRA does not expect firms to send any DBS certificates or copies of such  certificates to the PRA.  R egulatory references  This chapter sets out the PRA’s expectations of how firms should comply with the   rules on  regulatory references in the Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -  Fitness and Propriety Parts of the PRA Rulebook. A ‘regulatory reference’ is an employment  reference delivered in a mandatory form containing specific   information on a candidate’s conduct  and fitness and propriety. Firms must request and provide regulatory references in certain  circumstances detailed in Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Fitness  and Propriety.  The chapter   clarifies how firms should comply with a range of measures whose overarching goal  is to prevent the ‘recycling’ of individuals with poor conduct records between firms.  The rules on regulatory references and the expectations set out in this chapter take i nto account  the recommendations of the Fair and E ffective Markets Review (FEMR). 25  Requesting regulatory references  The Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propriety  Parts in the PRA Rulebook requires firms to requ est references when assessing the fitness and  propriety of candidates to perform the following functions (collectively referred to as ‘relevant  functions’):     Senior Management Functions (SMF) under the SMR;     Certification functions;     N otified non - executive director (NED) functions; and     any other Key Function Holders (KFHs) for   insurers.  Regulatory references must cover the previous six years of employment and be sought from all  relevant former employers, or organisations at which the i ndividual is or was a NED, and (if different)  any firms at which the candidate has performed:     a Se nior Management Function (SMF);  25   www.bankofengland.co.uk/report/2015/fair - and - effective - markets - review --- final - report . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   37     an other Controlled Function (CF);     a Certification function;     a notified NED function or credit union NED function; and/or     an y other KFH who is neither a SMF nor CF   or notified NED .  Note that other references should also be requested from any other employers or organisations  other than firms for which the candidate has performed a role, including as a non - executive director  (fo r the purposes of this specific requirement, which is set out in Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety  2.5(1)(c) and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propriety 2.5(1)(c), the term ‘non - executive  director’ is not restricted to the definition in the PRA   Rulebook but should be understood as  encompassing all forms of non - executive directorship).  Information to be included in the request for a reference  Where a firm (firm A) is requesting a regulatory reference from another full - scope regulatory  reference f irm (firm B) (as defined in the PRA Rulebook Glossary), firm A should make it sufficiently  clear that the request is subject to the requirements in Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety or Large  Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propriety, by attaching or ref erring to the Regulatory Reference  Template (‘Template’).  As long as firm A makes the nature of its request to firm B and the fact it is subject to the  Template requirements sufficiently clear, it does not have to set out specifically the information that  firm B needs to include in the regulatory reference.  Conversely, if firm A is requesting a reference from a firm that is not a full - scope regulatory  reference firm, or where it does not know whether the firm is a full - scope regulatory reference firm,  it   should clearly specify the information it requires to be provided as a minimum, and may find it  appropriate to use the Template anyway.  Recruiting individuals from overseas   firms  Due to local legal restrictions in some jurisdictions, obtaining information   on individuals’  conduct and fitness and propriety from firms outside the United Kingdom may sometimes not be  possible.  Although the PRA is aware of these legal restrictions, it requires firms to take reasonable steps  to obtain references from all current   and former employers. When recruiting a candidate who is or  may have previously been based overseas, these steps may include:     approaching all relevant current and former overseas employers;     explaining that UK regulation requires them to request certain information on candidates for  certain   functions and to specify the information they require; and     collecting as much of this specific information as the overseas employers are legally able and  willing to provide.  While full - scope regulatory reference firms must take reasonable steps to obtain information  from overseas firms, the PRA will take into account any demonstrable, relevant legal impediments  when assessing whether firms are complying wit h this requirement. Evidence of these legal 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   38  constraints may include, but is not limited to, relevant correspondence with the overseas employer  or a legal opinion setting out the applicable legal restrictions in a given jurisdiction.  In addition, the PRA un derstands that several jurisdictions have registers containing  information relevant to the conduct and/or fitness and propriety of, at least certain categories of  financial services professionals. Although searches of relevant registers are not an express   part of  the regulatory reference requirements, they may be a valuable source of information for the  assessment required, under the rules in Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency II  Firms -   Fitness and Propriety, of a candidate’s fitness a nd propriety. A firm’s due diligence would be  likely, however, to comprise of more than a search of relevant registers.  Recruiting individuals internally or from the same group  Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 2.5(2) and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitne ss and Propriety  2.5(2) states that a full - scope regulatory reference firm (firm A) is not required to obtain full  regulatory references (when hiring individuals into relevant functions) from a firm or firms which are  part of their same group, provided tha t the group’s internal policies and procedures enable firm A to  access all the information that other member of the group would require to give a reference (subject  to any applicable laws).  The aim of this rule is to give full - scope regulatory reference fi rms which are part of a group  flexibility to rely on centralised records or other internal mechanisms and processes for exchanging  information on employees. However, these internal mechanisms and processes should adequately  enable full - scope regulatory ref erence firms to satisfy their obligations. It follows that the quality  and quantity of information that full - scope regulatory reference firms should have access to from  their groups should be equivalent to that which would otherwise be contained in a regul atory  reference.  Obtaining references before applying for pre - approval as a SMF or CF or certifying a  Certification employee  There may be circumstances where it may not always be possible for firms to obtain a  reference before applying to the regulators fo r approval on behalf of a SMF.  For instance, if a candidate’s current employer is a UK - listed company, the candidate’s  resignation may trigger an obligation on the employer to issue a regulatory notification under Listing  Rule 9. 26   In this scenario, the c andidate may want to wait until they have obtained regulatory  approval for their proposed SMF (or an indication that such approval is likely to be forthcoming)  before resigning from their current role. A regulatory reference request from a prospective  empl oyer in these circumstances could alert the candidate’s current employer of their impending  resignation and trigger the obligation to notify.  The requirement on firms to satisfy themselves that candidates for a SMF are fit and proper  before applying to th e PRA for approval on their behalf applies irrespective of the circumstances.  Therefore, where a firm cannot obtain all necessary references before applying to the PRA for  approval to appoint, the PRA expects the firm to:  If a firm cannot obtain the necess ary references prior to making an application for approval as  an SMF because doing so would trigger a market - sensitive notification requirement, they will be  required to do so before the candidate can be approved by the PRA.  26   In particular, LR 9.6.11   https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/LR/9/6.html . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   39  If a firm cannot obtain the nec essary references prior to making an application for approval as  an SMF due to any other legitimate reasons, besides market - sensitive notification requirements, it  will need to obtain and consider all references necessary to confirm its conclusions as to t he  candidate’s fitness and propriety no later than one month before the application is due to be  determined.  In either case, the PRA will process these applications but will treat them as incomplete.  Consequently, the PRA will not make a decision as to whe ther to approve candidates, conditionally  or unconditionally, until the firm has confirmed that it has obtained all references necessary to  confirm its conclusions as to fitness and propriety.  5.21A Similarly, where a firm needs to fill a vacancy which is   a Certification function and which could  not have reasonably been foreseen, the PRA recognises that it may not be reasonable to expect the  firm to obtain references prior to issuing a certificate. In such cases, firms should take up the  references as soon   as reasonably possible. If the references duly obtained raise concerns about the  employee’s fitness and propriety, the firm should immediately revisit and, if appropriate, revoke, its  decision to issue them with a certificate.  Providing regulatory referenc es  If a firm receives a request from another firm subject to the regulatory reference requirements  regarding a candidate for a relevant function, Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 3 and Large Non -  Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propriety 3 requires that fir m to provide a regulatory reference  including all information which it reasonably considers to be relevant to the hiring firm’s assessment  of that individual’s fitness and propriety.  Insurance – Fitness and Propriety 3 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitne ss and Propriety 3 of  the PRA Rulebook requires that the regulatory reference must be provided using the Template and  include, at a minimum, the infor mation set out in the Template. 27  Individuals employed by a firm which is part of a group  It is not   uncommon for individuals to be contractually or formally employed by one firm but to  perform their role in or provide services to other entities within that firm’s group. Where this is the  case, the firm providing the reference should obtain relevant infor mation from other entities in its  group which the individual has worked in or provided services to over the past six years. Firms  should take similar action when updating a reference (see paragraphs 5.50 - 5.54 below).  Accordingly, the PRA expects firms, and   where relevant, groups, to implement appropriate  policies and processes to ensure that if an individual leaves the group, they can provide a complete  regulatory reference covering the prior six years of employment regardless of how many times they  changed   roles or moved within the group over that period.  Where an individual has, in the past six years, simultaneously performed relevant functions  across several firms within the same group and then leaves that group, the regulatory reference(s)  should include   information from all relevant entities subject to any applicable legal restrictions. The  PRA considers it good practice for groups to consolidate information from all relevant entities into a  single template. To facilitate this, the regulators have includ ed a rule allowing firms to change the  format of the Template (but not the substantive information that it must include).  27   www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/SYSC/22/Annex1.html . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   40  Agreements and circumstances relating to the departure of an individual  The precise manner in which an individual may have left a firm   (ie dismissal, redundancy,  mutual agreement etc.) has no bearing on that firm’s obligation to provide a regulatory reference.  Moreover, the obligation to provide regulatory references applies to every firm  notwithstanding any agreement or arrangement it   may have entered into with an individual prior to  or upon termination of their employment, including a COT 3 Agreement settled by the Advisory,  Conciliation and Arbitration Service.  A firm should not enter into any arrangements or agreements that could co nflict with its  obligations under the Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and  Propriety parts of the PRA Rulebook.  Outsourcing the collection of employee information  The requirement for a firm to give information to a nother PRA - regulated firm should also be  observed where the hiring firm has outsourced the collection of information on a candidate to an  unregulated third party, such as an executive search firm, provided that the firm requesting the  reference makes it cl ear to the firm giving it that the unregulated third party is acting on its behalf.  Mandatory information  Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 3.1 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -   Fitness and Propriety  3.1 requires firms to include the following mandatory in formation in answer to Questions (E) and (F)  of the Template, relating to the period beginning six years before the date of the request for a  reference and ending on the date of the reference:     a description of any breaches by the individual of the conduct   standards in Insurance   -   Conduct  Standards or   Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Conduct Standards , or, where relevant,   the  Statements of Principle and Code of Practice for Approved Persons (APER) (which was  superseded in the PRA Rulebook by the Insurance   -   Cond uct Standards and Large Non - Solvency II  Firms -   Conduct Standards   on 7 March 2016 but may still be relevant to historic misconduct), or  the corresponding conduct requirements in the FCA Handbook,   if they culminated in ‘disciplinary  action’, and the outcome   of this disciplinary action.   The definition in the PRA Rulebook of  disciplinary action, for the purposes of regulatory references, mirrors the definition in section  64C of FSMA; and     whether the firm concluded, and the facts that led to any such conclusion,   that the candidate  was not fit and proper to perform a function.  Suspensions imposed pending an internal investigation do not have to be notified to the PRA  nor included in regulatory references. Conversely, suspensions imposed as a disciplinary measure  are required to be included in regulatory references, and may need to be reported to the regulator  (see paragraph 5.56).  Likewise, the reduction or recovery of an individual’s remuneration should only be included in  a regulatory reference if it is imposed   as a disciplinary action due to a breach of the conduct  standards or, where relevant, APER, or other historic applicable rules, but not if it is triggered by a  downturn in financial performance or a need to preserve/rebuild capital unrelated to misconduct .  All relevant information  In addition to the mandatory information specified in Questions (E) and (F) of the Template,  which must be disclosed in regulatory references, Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety 3 and Large Non - 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   41  Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propr iety 3 requires a firm to provide all information of which it is  aware that it reasonably considers to be relevant to the requesting firm’s assessment of the  candidate’s fitness and propriety. To facilitate this, the Template includes Question (G) which is  termed here an ‘all relevant information section’.  Information disclosed in the ‘all relevant information section’ of the Template should not  duplicate anything disclosed in answer to Questions (E) and (F) in the Template. This section aims to  capture add itional information relevant to the requesting firm’s assessment of the candidate’s  fitness and propriety.  However, the ‘all relevant information’ section can be used to provide further background on a  breach disclosed in answer to Questions (E) and (F) i n the Template, such as mitigating  circumstances and/or subsequent corrective action or good conduct by the individual. It follows that  information in the ‘all relevant information’ section does not always have to be ‘negative’.  For example, if an individ ual’s remuneration was subject to clawback three years ago due to a  finding by their employer that the individual had failed to act with due skill, care and diligence in  respect of a particular matter, but the individual’s conduct at the same employer had   been  exemplary since; the disciplinary action should be disclosed in answer to Questions (E) and (F) in the  Template, but the firm would be able to use the ‘all relevant information’ section to highlight the  candidate’s subsequent conduct and any remedial   action taken.  Disclosures in the ‘all relevant information’ section are subject to the same six - year time limit  as those provided in answer to Questions (E) and (F) in the Template, except for cases involving  serious matters, for which there is no time li mit. It is important that firms also take into account all  relevant legal requirements, such as those relating to the rehabilitation of offenders and spent  convictions where appropriate, when determining what they may disclose.  Firms should make their own   assessment of the seriousness of the matter on a case - by - case  basis. Some non - exhaustive examples of misconduct which a firm may consider serious enough to  warrant inclusion in the ‘all relevant information section’ of the Template (regardless of how long  ago they took place) include but are not limited to:     a serious breach of certain rules directly applicable to the individual ie within   Insurance   -   Conduct  Standards   and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   –   Conduct Standards;     misconduct that caused or led to a br each by the firm of important supervisory requirements,  such as the Threshold Conditions;     misconduct that resulted in enforcement action by the regulators against the firm and/or the  individual concerned;     misconduct involving serious dishonesty (whether o r not it also involves a criminal act,   but   taking  account of any applicable legal requirements relating to the rehabilitation of offenders and spent  convictions   and related disclosures );     conduct that would have caused the firm providing the reference   (firm A) to dismiss the  individual (‘P’) in accordance with its internal code of conduct if it had been discovered while P  was still working there; and/or 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   42     conduct that would cause firm A not to employ P if firm A were considering P for a relevant  function   and it became aware of it (through a regulatory reference from a prior employer or  otherwise).  Please note that the examples in the paragraph above are only relevant for the purposes of  regulatory references. They do not, for example, have any applicatio n in the context of the exercise  of disciplinary powers by the PRA.  The ‘all relevant information’ section may also include information on events that did not  culminate in formal ‘disciplinary action’ as defined in the PRA Rulebook, or in a formal finding   that  the individual was not fit and proper.  Legal duties  When considering what information and level of detail to include in regulatory references,  firms need to comply with their legal obligations under statutory and common law.  As set out in Insurance   -   Fitness and Propriety 3.4 and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and  Propriety 3.4, a firm is not required to disclose information that has not been properly verified. A  firm supplying a reference owes a duty to its former employee and the recipient fir m to exercise due  skill and care in the preparation of the reference. References should be true, accurate, fair, and  based on documented fact.  If a reference refers to misconduct/includes adverse information about the candidate, then this  should have been   properly investigated by the firm, and the firm should have reasonable grounds  for believing that the misconduct has taken place. References should not be based on unproven  allegations or mere suspicions.  Fairness may require a firm to have given an empl oyee an opportunity to comment on  information in a reference (‘right to comment’). However, it is ultimately for firms to decide whether  a right to comment is appropriate taking into account the individual circumstances of each case.  Giving individuals a r ight to comment on allegations capable of inclusion in a regulatory  reference does not equate to giving them a right to edit or veto the contents of a regulatory  reference.  Similarly, if an individual refuses to comment on allegations having been given a   reasonable  opportunity to do so, this should not, in itself, prevent the firm from including these allegations in a  regulatory reference.  It is the responsibility of firms to develop internal policies and processes that ensure  compliance with their legal a nd regulatory obligations.  Updating regulatory references  From 7 March 2017 firms are required to revise a regulatory reference they have given on or  after that date where they become aware of matters that would cause them to draft the reference 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   43  different ly, if the reference were being given now 28 . This updating obligation applies for a period of  six years.  The matters in scope of the requirements to update a regulatory reference are the same, in  terms of the disclosures and minimum time requirements, as   those applicable to the initial  reference. However, the maximum six - year time limit for updating references will be fixed  irrespective of the severity of the misconduct.  The six - year period for updating regulatory references starts on the date when the ind ividual’s  employment with the firm providing the reference terminated (including any applicable notice  periods, garden leave or equivalent).  Notwithstanding the fixed six - year updating period, disclosures in the original regulatory  reference may include m isconduct that occurred more than six years before the reference was  given, but which came to light within the period during which the updating provision applies (if  sufficiently serious).  In practice, updating is likely to be limited to circumstances whe re misconduct comes to light  after an employee has left the firm, and that firm is able to confirm that misconduct and/or a breach  of any relevant conduct rules or standards by the former employee occurred.  Updating references where the individual moves mu ltiple times in six years  A firm providing an updated reference is only required by Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 3  and Large Non - Solvency II Firms -   Fitness and Propriety 3 to provide it to the individual’s current  employer, but not to any other firms   where the individual may have been employed in the period  between leaving the firm providing the update reference and joining their current employer.  Moreover, the PRA expects firms to consider this requirement alongside the following  additional requiremen ts and expectations on full - scope regulatory reference firms to disclose  misconduct to either the regulators or other firms:     in addition to the requirement to provide an updated reference to the individual’s current  employer, a firm is required to ensure t hat any new references it is asked to provide within the  six - year period reflects any relevant information that may come to light following the  individual’s departure.     where a firm discovers misconduct, a number of existing rules require firms and the ind ividuals  therein to disclose this to the PRA irrespective of whether the individuals involved remain  employed by the firm or not. These rules include:  (a)   Fundamental Rule 7, which states that a firm must deal with its regulators in an open and  cooperative way   and must disclose to the PRA appropriately anything relating to the firm of  which the PRA would reasonably expect notice; 29  (b)   Individual Conduct Standard 3 and Senior Manager Conduct Standard 4, which require  individuals to “be open and co - operative with the   FCA, the PRA and other regulators” and  Key Function Holders to “disclose appropriately any information of which the FCA or PRA  would reasonably expect notice”; and  28   This requirement does not apply to non - regulatory references ie standard employment references.  29   http://www.prarulebook.co.uk/rulebook/Content/Part/211136/22 - 06 - 2016 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   44  (c)   Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 4.3   and Large Non - Solvency II Firms   -   Fitness and Proprie ty  4.3 , which states that a firm must inform the PRA as soon as practicable of any information  that would reasonably be expected to be material to the assessment of a current or former  key function holder’s fitness and propriety. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   45  Appendix: PRA Expected R esponsibilities of NEDs in scope of the SMR  Senior Management Function   Expected Responsibility  Chair   of the board   (ie   SM F 9 Chair  of the Governing Body function)  Chairing, and overseeing the performance of the role of, the governing body  of a firm. Leadin g the development and monitoring effective implementation  of policies and procedures for the induction, training and professional  development of all members of the firm’s governing body, Overseeing the  assessment of fitness and propriety of all NEDs; and L eading the development  of the firm’s culture by the governing body as a whole  Chair of the Risk Committee  ( SM F 10 )  Chairing, and overseeing the performance of the role of, the risk committee.  Chair of the Audit Committee  (S M F 11 )  Chairing, and overse eing the performance of the role of, the audit  committee.  Chair of the Remuneration  Committee ( S MF 12 )  Chairing, and overseeing the performance of the role of, the remuneration  committee. Oversight of the development and implementation of the firm’s  remu neration policies and practices.  SID ( SMF   14 )   Performing the role of a senior independent director, and having particular  responsibility for leading the assessment of the performance of the person  performing the Chair of the Governing Body function.  Any NED subject to pre‐approval   Oversight of the independence, autonomy, and effectiveness of the firm’s  policies and procedures on whistleblowing including the procedures for  protection of staff who raise concerns from detrimental treatment. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   46  Annex: Sum mary of Updates to SS35/15  SS35/15 was first published in August 2015 following CP26/14 ‘Senior Insurance Managers Regime: a  new regulatory framework for individuals’, 30   CP7/15 ‘Approach to non - executive directors in  banking and Solvency II firms & Applicat ion of the presumption of responsibility to Senior Managers  in banking firms’, 31   and CP13/15 ‘Changes to the Approved Persons Regime for Solvency II firms:  forms, consequential changes and transitional arrangements’. 32  This annex details changes made to this   SS following its initial publication in August 2015. 33  June   2021  Following publication of PS 11 /21   ‘ Strengthening accountability: Temporary, long - term absences ’ ,  this SS has been updated to reflect the addition of paragraphs 2.22O, 2.22P and 2.22Q, which   clarify  the PRA’s expectations in relation to arrangements for long - term leave under the Senior Managers  Regime. 34  February 2020  The SS is amended following publication of PS3/20 ‘Responses to Occasional Consultation Paper  25/19   –   Chapters 2 and 3’ 35   to reflect the removal of a deleted word in paragraph 3.3.  July 2018  Amending the SS to reflect the amendments made to the SIMR, so as to extend the SM&CR to  insurers, including:  •   adding a new Chapter 2A, and amending paragraphs 2.27, 3.2A, 3.3, 3.6, 3.9,   3.10, 4.1,  4.2, 4.7, 4.8, 5.4, 5.5, and 5.21A, for the implementation of the certification regime;  •   setting out the PRA’s expectations on:  o   statements of responsibility and management responsibility maps [which replace ‘scope  of responsibilities records’ and   ‘governance maps’ in the SIMR respectively] (paragraphs  2.57 to 2.93);  o   sharing or splitting a SMF or PR (paragraphs 2.19A and 2.50 to 2.56);  o   the responsibilities inherent to the definition of a SMF (paragraph 2.36);  o   allocation of the responsibility for th e ongoing assessment of the fitness and propriety of  Notified NEDs (paragraph 2.45);  o   notifications under Notifications 11 in the PRA Rulebook (paragraphs 3.37 to 3.41); and  30   November 2014:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/cp/2014/cp2614.aspx.  31   February 2015 :   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/cp/2015/cp715.aspx .  32   March 2015 :   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/cp/2015/cp1315.aspx .  33   All versions of SS35/15 are available:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/strengthening -  individual - accountability - in - insurance - ss .  34   June   2021:   h ttps://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/smf - long - term - absences .  35   February 2020:   https://www.b ankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/occasional - consultation - paper - october -  2019 . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in   insurance   June 2021   47  o   application of the PRA’s conduct rules to individuals covering for a SMF during a 1 2 - week  grace period (paragraph 3.2B).     setting out how the PRA will apply section 66B(5) of FSMA (also referred to as ‘the Duty of  Responsibility’) in practice (paragraphs 2.94 to 2.113);     setting out some more detailed expectations on the responsibilities   that may be allocated to  the Chief Operations SMF (paragraphs 2.22L and 2.22LA);     referring to the Statement of Policy ‘Conditions, time limits, and variations of approval’  (paragraphs 2.2 and 2.44);     including an expectation that there would be a nominated   key function holder who has  responsibility for the oversight of the activities of each material risk - taker (MRT) within a  ‘large firm’ (paragraph 3.18);     adding some further expectations on what is sought from senior managers and directors in a  new paragrap h 4.3A;     amending the terminology in the SS from SIMR (and SIMF) to SMR (and SMF); and     various other consequential changes.  Widening the scope of the SS to include large NDFs.  February 2018  Adding paragraphs 2.22H   –   2.22N and 2.37A   -   2.37B, and amending   paragraphs 2.14A to 2.16A, 2.22,  2.23 and 2.25 to set out the PRA’s expectations in relation to the rule changes described in Chapter 2  of PS1/18 ‘Strengthening individual accountability in banking and insurance: amendments and  optimisations’. 36   It also inc orporates the changes that were proposed in CP14/17 to remove gender -  based language and terminology. The updates will take effect from Monday 10   December 2018: the  date announced by HM Treasury for the commencement of the extension of the Senior Managers  a nd Certification Regime (SM&CR) for insurers. 37  May 2017  Adding paragraphs 2.22A   -   2.22G to set out the PRA’s expectations in relation to the rule changes  described in Chapter 4 of PS 12/17 ‘Strengthening individual accountability in banking and insurance:  amendments and optimisations’.  September 2016  Inserting Chapter 5 to incorporate the PRA’s expectations in relation to regulatory references  published as part of Policy Statement (PS) 27/16 ‘Strengthening accountability in banking and  insurance: PRA   requirements on regulatory references (part II)’. 38  Other consequential changes to chapters 1 - 4, and updates to reflect the commencement of changes  to FSMA made through the Bank of England and Financial Services Act 2016.  Amending Chapter 3 to reflect the d irect application with effect from 12 July 2017 of PRA conduct  rules to Conduct Rules NEDs; and to record the PRA’s expectation that observance of the PRA  36   February 2018:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2017/strengthening - accountability - in - banking - and -  insurance .  37   December 2018:   www.gov.uk/government/news/new - accountability - rules - for - insurers .  38   September 2016,   www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/publications/ps/2016/ps2716.aspx . 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded

Strengthening individual accountability in insurance   June 2021   48  Conduct Standards by key function holders should normally be included within the Scope of  Responsibil ities record maintained (and signed) by the individual. 31 December 2024: This document has been superseded. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/strengthening-individual-accountability-in-insurance-ss Superseded


