---
title: "SS817 – Ss817update May 2020"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2017/ss817update-may-2020.pdf"
---

# SS817 – Ss817update May 2020

Supervisory Statement   |   SS8/17  Authorisation and supervision of  insurance special purpose vehicles  May 2020  (Updating December 2017) Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Supervisory Statement   |   SS8/17  Authorisation and supervision of  insurance special purpose vehicles  May 2020  © Bank of England   2020  Prudential   Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

C ontents  Introduction   1  Authorisation of insurance special purpose vehicles   2  Requirements of ISPVs   6  Ongoing   supervision of ISPVs   12  App endix   13  Annex: SS8/17 updates   14 Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance s pecial purpose vehicles   May 2020   1  Introduction  1.1 This   S upervisory   S tatement (SS) sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) approach  and expectations in relation to the   authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose  vehicles (ISPVs).  1.2 This SS is relevant to parties who wish to apply for, or have obtained authorisation as, an ISPV. It  is also relevant to insurers and reinsurers seeking to use UK ISPVs as risk mitigation in accordance  with Solvency II.  1.3 In accordance with Article   2 of the Implementing Regulation, 1   an ISPV that takes on more than  one contract for risk transfer from one or   more   ‘ cedants ’ 2   is referred to as a multi - arrangement  insurance special purpose vehicle (MISPV). 3   All references made to ISPVs in this SS are equa lly  applicable to MISPVs, unless otherwise specified.  1.4 Chapters 2, 3 and 4 should be read in conjunction with the:     Risk Transformation Regulations 2017 (SI 2017/1212) (RTR);     Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) as modified by the RTR;     Financia l Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (SI   2001/544) (the  RAO) as modified by the RTR;     Directive 2009/138/EC (Solvency II Directive);     Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 (Delegated Regulation);     Commission Implementing Re gulation (EU) 2015/462 (Implementing Regulation);     Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles ,   Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety, Insurance   –   Senior  Management Functions,   Insurance   –   Senior Managers Regime   –   Applications and Notifications,  and   the   Key Function   Holder   –   Notifications Part s   of the PRA Rulebook;     Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Policy Statement 17/24   –   authorising and supervising  insurance special purpose vehicles ; 4   and     FCA Statement   –   authorising and supervising insurance special purpose vehicle s. 5  1.4A   Attention is also drawn to information on the PRA’s website regarding ISPVs. 6  1.5 In this SS, reference to ‘the regulators’ means the PRA and FCA.  1   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/462.  2   R eferences to ‘cedant’ in this SS mean the undertaking that transfers risk to the ISPV.  3   See also paragraph 3.29.  4   Available at:   www.fca.org.uk/publications/policy - statements/ps17 - 24 - handbook - changes - insurance - linked - s ecurities .  5   See   above footnote.  6   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/authorisations/insurance - special - purpose - vehicles . Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   2  Authorisation of insurance special purpose vehicles  Overview of authorisation process  2.1 Entities wishing to operate in the United Kingdom as an ISPV will need to apply to the PRA for  permission to perform the regulated activity of insurance risk transformation set out in Regulation  13A of the RAO.  2.2 The PRA will only grant authorisatio n in accordance with Part 4A of FSMA where the ISPV  demonstrates that the conditions specified in Article 318 of the Delegated Regulation are satisfied.  2.3 All ISPVs are dual regulated by the PRA and FCA, and applications will be reviewed jointly by the  regulators. As for other dual - regulated firms, the PRA will lead the authorisation process and require  the FCA’s consent before granting authorisation.  MISPVs  2.4 An MISPV is permitted within the Solvency II framework provided that it complies with the  r equirements of Articles 318 to 324, 326 and 327 of the Delegated Regulation and Article 7 of the  Implementing Regulation (and is capable of meeting the requirements of Article 325 of the  Delegated Regulation).  Pre - application discussions  2.5 Given the   often time - sensitive nature of insurance - linked securities transactions, the PRA will  offer the opportunity for prospective ISPV applicants to discuss their proposals prior to application.  Although this is not a requirement, the PRA encourages applicants t o make use of a pre - application  stage. Engagement prior to the application gives applicants the opportunity to receive early  feedback from the regulators regarding their plans, highlighting any potential concerns in good time,  and also informs regulators w hen they should expect to receive an application .  2.6   In particular, the pre - application process can be beneficial for both the regulators and the  applicant as it provides a forum for constructive discussion on matters such as the scope and  structure of t he intended ISPV, the type and effectiveness of the risk transfer, the shareholder  structure of the vehicle, the proposed investment strategy, and how the requirement to be fully  funded is met. The pre - application process will also allow applicants to shar e details of individuals  identified for controlled functions as part of the Senior Managers and Certification   Regime (SM&CR).  This should help applicants to submit a complete application.  Applications for authorisation of an ISPV  2.7   Applications for ISPV app roval should be made through submission of:     an ISPV   A pplication   F orm 7   for the authorisation of the ISPV; and     application forms for individuals (S enior   M anagers   R egime , and FCA Controlled Functions  (where applicable)) in line with paragraphs 3.1 to 3.5.  2.8 The material requested within the ISPV application form reflects the requirements set out in  Article 5 of the Implementing Regulation, which includes the documentation required in Annex I to  that Regulation.  7   Available at:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/authorisations/insurance - special - purpose - vehicles . Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   3  Documentation requirements  2.9 The PRA expec ts final documentation to be submitted with applications where possible. In the  case where final transaction documentation is not available at the point of application, draft  transaction documentation will be accepted. The PRA does not expect changes to be   made during  the submission phase where this could impact how the relevant requirements are proposed to be  met. If such changes are made, the PRA expects the applicant to submit an analysis of the changes  and their impact on the relevant requirements at th e first opportunity. Substantive changes  following submission of the application are likely to extend the assessment period.  2.9A   Where the applicant considers that the complete set of documentation   will   not be available at  the point of application, the PR A expects applicants to discuss this with   it   to explain what is likely to  be available and how this might affect the timing of the application.  2.9B   Where the application is for a ‘live’ transaction, the PRA understands that the transaction  documents may n ot be legally executed until after approval, and therefore some specific commercial  terms may remain outstanding until the transaction is executed. However, the PRA expects the  applicant to identify where this will be the case in the documentation prior to   approval being  granted. If approval is granted before the transaction documents are legally executed, the PRA  expects the ISPV to submit the final documents to the PRA as soon as possible once they are legally  executed.  2.10 For a single - arrangement ISPV, the applicant should submit documentation that is specific to  the proposed transaction. Details of the specific transaction should be in the application form, eg  specific details on the risk transfer, funding structure a nd investment strategy of the deal.  2.11 For an MISPV, the applicant should include sufficient detail in relation to all known   transactions,  including future planned transactions. Where an application includes information given in relation to  potential fu ture transactions, the PRA expects the applicant to demonstrate how these  arrangements will satisfy the applicable requirements upon being entered into. Further details are  included in paragraph 2.15A below.  2.12   The PRA does not generally expect to reques t applicants to submit independent third - party  opinions (eg   legal, accountant, or actuarial) in every case (eg straightforward applications), although  the PRA may request applicants to provide the PRA with third party opinions where necessary, for  example   where the PRA considers it would   assist   it   in making   an assessment against the conditions  for authorisation. The PRA considers that such opinions may be useful to support demonstration of  compliance with the Solvency II requirements, in particular Articles 319, 320 and 321 of the  Delegated Regulation, where   the transaction contains complex or novel features, for example,  including but not limited to:     where a transaction includes complex connected transactions, eg complex trust or security  arrangements, or any inter - cell arrangements;   and/or     the recognition a nd valuation of the ISPV ’ s assets in accordance with Article   75 of the Solvency II  Directive, where the ISPV invests in assets which are considered non - standard in nature.  2.12A Where contractual arrangements are material to the conditions for authorisatio n   -   in  particular where contractual provisions are relied upon to meet Articles 319, 320 and 321 of the  Delegated Regulation   -   and those arrangements are subject to foreign law, the PRA will expect a  legal opinion on the effectiveness and enforceability of   those arrangements under the relevant  foreign law. In such circumstances the PRA would also expect an English law opinion confirming that Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   4  the operation of English law would not undermine the effect of the transaction and/or arrangements  under the applicab le foreign law.  Scope of Permission (SOP)  2.13 In line with Regulation 7 of the RTR, the PRA is required to exercise its discretion under Section  55F(4)(a) of FSMA. This requires the PRA to limit the scope of the regulated activities which the ISPV  may ca rry on. In exercising its discretion under Regulation 7(1) of the RTR, the limitation imposed by  the PRA must be determined by reference to some or all of the activities described in the application  for Part 4A of FSMA permission. The permission granted to   the ISPV in accordance with the process  in this paragraph is referred to in this SS as the ISPV’s SOP.  2.14 A SOP is a key component of an ISPV’s authorisation, as it defines the boundaries within which  the ISPV may carry on the regulated activity of ins urance risk transformation. Information referred  to in Article 5 of the Implementing Regulation will form the basis of the SOP granted by the PRA  under Part 4A of FSMA.  2.15   The PRA expects   applicants to provide sufficient information on each of the poten tial  arrangements, structures, and/or mechanisms it wishes to form part of the SOP,   so   that the PRA can  assess their compliance with the Solvency II requirements. Where an ISPV contemplates a range of  potential arrangements, structures or mechanisms (parti cularly in the case of MISPVs that intend to  create different options for future cells) applicants should include sufficient information on each of  these options in their application. The PRA expects the applicant to submit the contractual  wording/arrangem ents which would govern these future arrangements, if it wishes these future  arrangements to be included in the ISPV’s initial SOP. This will enable the PRA to assess all of the  potential options upfront and, where appropriate, to include each of these opt ions in the initial SOP.  Alternatively the applicant may choose to submit a narrower range of arrangements as part of the  initial approval, and seek a variation of permission for a wider SOP at a later stage.  2.15A Where an application is submitted with n o proposed ‘live transaction’, consistent with the  approach above, the PRA will expect applicants to submit sufficient information in the application to  enable the PRA to judge whether future arrangements will be compliant with applicable  requirements. The   PRA expects applicants to submit template contractual arrangements which  would be used in these future arrangements.   For an   MISPV,   this will be the case   whether the  applicant intends for the MISPV to enter into future arrangements with the same cedant or   multiple  cedants. Upon the MISPV executing a live transaction, and assuming a new risk, it must follow the  notification process in accordance with Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles 4.3 and outlined further  in paragraph 2.27.  2.16 The PRA expects that in m ost cases the information in the table in the Appendix will be  particularly relevant for the purposes of defining the SOP. However, this is not an exhaustive list and  all of the information referred to in Article 5 of the Implementing Regulation will be re levant for the  purposes of defining the SOP. Each application will be considered on a case - by - case basis.  2.17 Consistent with Part 4A of FSMA, the ISPV may not act outside the scope of its SOP. This means  that in the case of an MISPV, future arrangements   must fall within the scope of the SOP.  2.18 Where an ISPV contemplates activities that are outside the scope of its SOP, it must apply to  the PRA for a variation of permission (VOP). Upon granting a VOP, a new limitation will be placed on  the scope of the   ISPV’s permission which will form an updated SOP. Applications for a VOP will  require a reasonable timeframe for the PRA to review, and more complex changes will require  greater scrutiny. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   5  Timelines for review of applications (including   VOP   applications)  2. 19 Consistent with Article 4(1) of the Implementing Regulation, the PRA will determine complete  applications for authorisation as an ISPV within six months of receipt. The PRA anticipates that ISPV  applications will range in complexity. The PRA considers t hat where applications represent a  relatively straightforward proposal, and are supported by good quality documentation this should  allow a determination to be reached within 6 - 8 weeks. In addition, where effective pre - application  engagement has taken plac e 6 - 8 weeks is more likely to be feasible. The PRA will process  applications as quickly as possible and approval may be possible more quickly in some  circumstances. For applications that are complex or novel, applicants should recognise the need for  additi onal review time. The PRA will keep these matters under review as experience develops.  2.19A Where an applicant proposes arrangements that are sufficiently similar to arrangements that  have previously been assessed by the PRA in respect of the same appli cant, such as a previous  transaction with the same cedant and substantially the same transaction documentation, the PRA  will consider all relevant factors but will aim to leverage (to the extent appropriate) any work done  in the previous application, to mi nimise duplication. In such circumstances, the PRA expects  applicants to discuss with the PRA the level of changes they envisage so that the review can be  focused as much as possible on the key changes.  2.20 The statutory timeframe for determining an appli cation for a VOP, as set out in FSMA, is six  months for a complete application. The quality of the documentation and complexity of the  proposed amendment will determine the time taken for the PRA to review the VOP application, as  will the level of pre - appl ication engagement where possible.  Submission of an application  2.21 The ISPV application form referred to in paragraph 2.7 details the information to be submitted  for an application. The PRA expects applicants to review this in detail prior to submission.   The PRA  will notify the applicant as soon as it has reached a decision on the completeness of the application.  The PRA will endeavour, where possible, to provide this within ten working days of receipt.  Incomplete submissions will delay the final decision   on applications for approval.  Consultation and ongoing cooperation with EEA supervisory authorities  2.22 Under Articles 8 and 9 of the Implementing Regulation, the supervisory authority in the  jurisdiction of the ISPV is required to consult prior to autho risation and cooperate on an ongoing  basis with the supervisory authority of cedants located in the European Economic Area (EEA).  2.23 The PRA encourages applicants, where possible, to confirm as part of its application that the  supervisory authority of an y EEA cedant has been notified of the proposed transaction, and  supply details of the relevant contact for such supervisory authority. This will assist the PRA in its  consultation with the cedant’s supervisory authority.  2.24 Where possible, the PRA expects an MISPV to include within its application the proposed  jurisdictions from which it expects to assume risks. Upon submission of the MISPV New Risk  Assumption Notification Form , 8   the MISPV is encouraged to include confir mation that the  supervisory authority of any EEA cedant has been notified of the proposed transaction, and supply  the details of the relevant contact for the supervisory authority.  8   See Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles 6.1. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   6  Decisions  2.25 The PRA will lead in the assessment of the application, and   will require the consent of the FCA  before granting authorisation. If a decision is made to approve the application, the PRA will notify  the applicant. If the decision is that the application is not successful and the PRA and/or the FCA  proposes to refuse   it, the PRA will inform the applicant about the procedure and the options open to  the applicant to challenge the decision.  2.26 Where an ISPV is considered compliant with all other applicable requirements the PRA expects  it will be able to grant an approva l that is effective prior to the date that funding is received, if the  ISPV can demonstrate that it will receive the relevant funding before the risk transfer to the ISPV  becomes effective. The PRA will expect the application to demonstrate that all expens es and  operating costs will be met appropriately, whether or not they form part of the ISPV’s Aggregate  Maximum Risk Exposure (AMRE). 9  MISPV notification process  2.27 Once authorised, an MISPV must notify the PRA within five working days of assuming a new risk  (pursuant to Regulation 60 of the RTR). In accordance with Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles   4.3  this post - transaction notification must be submitted using   the MISPV New Risk Assumption  Notification Form. The form requires MISPVs to provide details and documentation on the specific  risk transfer arrangement to which it relates (including the documentation specified in the SOP),  confirmation that it is in line   with the MISPV’s SOP, and a signed declaration by two directors that all  information in the form is accurate. Additionally, the form requires the MISPV to provide summary  details of all the current risk transfer arrangements, including the AMRE of each of   the individual  arrangements as well as the aggregate AMRE of the MISPV.  Requirements of ISPVs  PRA Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SM&CR) requirements  3.1   All individuals who are ‘effectively running’ the ISPV must satisfy the fit and proper crit eria set  out in the Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety Part of the PRA Rulebook. Effectively running is  described in paragraph 2.32 of SS35/15 ‘Strengthening individual accountability in insurance’ 10   and  in Solvency II   European Insurance and Occupational Pen sions Authority’s   guidelines. 11   It is expected  to include all the members of the governing body, as well as the senior management of the ISPV (or  any related insurance group) who are responsible for key decision making and for implementing the  strategies an d policies approved by the governing body. These individuals can be both Senior  Management Function (SMF) roles and non - SMF roles.  3.2   The PRA requires applicants to nominate fit and proper individuals for approval by the PRA to  occupy the following SMF ro les for each ISPV. 12     Chief Executive (SMF1);     Chief Finance (SMF2); and     Chair of the Board (SMF9).  9   As defined in Article 1(44) of the Delegated Regulation.  10   February 2020 :   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/strengthening - individual - accountability -  in - i nsurance - ss .  11   EIOPA Guidelines of system of governance (EIOPA - BoS - 14/253 EN),   paragraph 1.21.  12   Pursuant to Insurance   –   Senior Management Functions 2, and Insurance   –   Fitness and Propriety 2. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   7  3.3   The PRA considers that each of these roles is important for the ongoing safety and soundness of  the ISPV but, depending on its assessment of the particular   case, an individual with the relevant skills  and experience may be able to perform more than one of these roles. It is also acknowledged that  provided there are no conflicts of interest, a SMF role or individual deemed to be effectively running  the ISPV c ould be held by a suitably senior employee or director of a third party such as an  outsourced service provider.  3.4   The ISPV must complete the relevant application form (see Insurance   –   Senior Managers Regime  –   Applications and Notifications Part) for each   of the individuals nominated for PRA approval to  perform a SMF role at the ISPV.   Once the ISPV is approved, if at any time an individual is appointed  as a NED or key function holder , 13   and this individual is not already a SMF holder, then following  their a ppointment the ISPV must submit Form M (see Key Function Holder   –   Notifications Part) to  the PRA.  3.5   The individuals who are effectively running the ISPV are expected to be responsible for providing  oversight of the activities and key functions of the IS PV, including outsourced service providers, and  for ensuring that the ISPV meets its regulatory requirements.  Fit and proper requirements for shareholders or members with a qualifying holding  3.6 Article 323 of the Delegated Regulation requires a fit and p roper assessment of shareholders or  members with a qualifying holding in the ISPV. The term qualifying holding is defined in Article  13(21) of the Solvency II Directive as a direct or indirect holding in an undertaking which represents  10% or more of the c apital, or 10% or more of the voting rights, or which makes it possible to  exercise a significant influence over the management of the undertaking.  3.7 The PRA’s approach when assessing compliance against this requirement will be proportionate  to the natur e and level of influence any shareholder or member with a qualifying holding is expected  to have on the ISPV, including any voting rights, or ability to exercise influence, and the extent of  their financial commitments to the ISPV.  3.8 For both MISPVs and   single - arrangement ISPVs, the PRA will carry out a fit and proper  assessment of shareholders or members who have a qualifying holding on the basis that they hold  10% or more of the voting rights in the ISPV, or have significant influence over the managemen t of  the ISPV. The PRA expects that a significant influence over the management of the ISPV is likely to  arise where there is a holding representing 10% or more of the capital of the ISPV, and either: (i) at  least some of those holdings include voting righ ts; or (ii) the arrangements of the ISPV are such that  the shareholder or member may have a significant influence over the management of the ISPV. The  PRA considers that these shareholders or members can control the ISPV, and for that reason they  will form   part of the ISPV’s SOP, meaning that a change in these shareholders or members would  require a VOP (and the PRA would consider the proposed change in accordance with the criteria in  Article 323(1)(a) to (d) of the Delegated Regulation).  3.9 A qualifying h olding may arise where a holding represents 10% or more of capital, even where  the shareholder or member does not have voting rights or a significant influence over the  management of the ISPV. In the case of single - arrangement ISPVs, the PRA expects them t o have a  framework in place for assessing these shareholders or members, which should consider all of the  criteria in Article 323(1)(a) to (d) of the Delegated Regulation, including any financial commitments  to the ISPV. The ISPV’s assessment under Article   323(1)(a) to (d) of the Delegated Regulation can be  proportionate to the fact that these shareholders or members will be expected to have little or no  13   Individuals who perform key functions pursuant to the Key   Function Holder   –   Notifications part of the PRA Rulebook. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   8  influence over the management of the ISPV. The PRA will assess this framework at authorisation,  and will   expect the ISPV to demonstrate to the PRA that these shareholders or members will not  have (or acquire) a significant influence over the management of the ISPV (otherwise, the PRA will  consider these shareholders or members in line with the process descri bed above).  3.10 The assessment required under Article 323 of the Delegated Regulation also applies in respect  of shareholders or members having a qualifying holding in the MISPV. Accordingly, the PRA expects  that the assessment described in paragraph 3.8   will include holdings issued on behalf of the core of  an MISPV, on the basis that these shareholders or members will exercise a significant influence over  the management of the MISPV. As regards shareholders or members in the cells of a Protected Cell  Comp any (PCC), the RTR specifies that only a holding issued on behalf the core of a PCC is to be  treated as a holding in the PCC. Therefore one of the effects of the RTR is that the assessment under  Article 323 of the Delegated Regulation should not include ho ldings issued on behalf of a cell of a  PCC. Furthermore, the PRA would not expect the governance arrangements of the PCC to enable  holdings in cells to exercise significant influence over the MISPV.  3.11 The PRA expects all ISPVs to explain their proposed   ownership structure in the application for  authorisation, identifying, to the extent possible, any proposed shareholders or members that will  have a qualifying holding (highlighting those for the PRA’s assessment under Article 323 of the  Delegated Regulati on as described in paragraph 3.8 above). The application for authorisation should  contain sufficient information to enable the PRA to perform its assessment of qualifying holding  shareholders’ or members’ fitness and propriety (as described above), and (in   the case of a single -  arrangement ISPV) details of the proposed framework for the ISPV’s assessment of other  shareholders or members with a qualifying holding.  3.11A   Where the ISPV is consolidated into a group the applicant must provide an assessment of th e  applicable accounting consolidation requirements of the ISPV into the group, in accordance with  Annex I of the Implementing Regulation. The PRA will assess the specific circumstances for  consolidation against the relevant requirements.  The requirement fo r ISPVs to be fully funded  3.12 Solvency II requires all ISPVs to be fully funded. Article 326 of the Delegated Regulation sets out  the requirements that must be satisfied in order for an ISPV to be considered fully funded.  3.13 Article 326(1)(a) of the De legated Regulation requires that the assets of the ISPV be valued in  accordance with Article 75 of the Solvency II Directive. For this purpose, the PRA expects the ISPV to  recognise and value its assets in accordance with Article 8 of the Delegated Regulat ion. This means  that, unless provided otherwise, assets must be recognised in conformity with the international  accounting standards adopted by the European Commission in accordance with Regulation (EC) No  1606/2002. This will determine the extent to which   assets may be recognised and taken into account  for the purposes of satisfying the fully f unded requirement.  3 .14 Article 326(1)(c) of the Delegated Regulation requires that the proceeds of the ISPV’s debt  issuance or other funding mechanism are fully pai d - in. The PRA considers that to be fully paid - in an  ISPV should have received the proceeds of the debt issuance or other mechanism by which it is  financed. Therefore on the basis of Article 326(1)(a) and (c) of the Delegated Regulation, the PRA  expects ISP Vs not to include contingent assets for the purposes of satisfying the fully funded  requirement. Accordingly, ISPVs should not count legally binding commitments that could be treated  as ancillary own funds by insurance or reinsurance undertakings under Art icle 89 of the Solvency II  Directive, as assets for the purposes of satisfying the fully funded requirement. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   9  3.15 The PRA expects ISPVs to recognise payments expected to be received from the cedant (e.g.  funds withheld) as an asset only if all the requirem ents in Article 326(4) of the Delegated Regulation  are met.  3.16 Article 326(1)(b) of the Delegated Regulation requires that the ISPV must at all times have  assets the value of which is equal to or exceeds its AMRE and that it is able to pay the amounts it   is  liable for as they fall due. The AMRE is defined in Article 1(44) of the Delegated Regulation as the  sum of the maximum payments including expenses that the ISPV may incur, although expenses that  satisfy Article 1(44)(a) to (c) of the Delegated Regulat ion can be excluded. The PRA considers that  the AMRE must be an amount that is determinable at any given point in time, so that ISPVs and the  PRA are able to assess whether the fully funded requirement is being met at that point in time.  Consequently, the   PRA expects the risk exposure taken on by the ISPV to either be a fixed amount  that is specified in the contract, or to be an amount determinable in accordance with the terms of  the contract with the cedant, eg the contractual limit is recalculated on a pe riodic basis with  reference to the amount generated by a model as long as it is explicitly reflected in the contractual  limit and the updated AMRE. In either case, consistent with Article 320 of the Delegated Regulation,  the PRA expects an ISPV to ensure t hat the risk transfer (and the contractual provisions regarding  any changes thereto) is clearly defined so that an ISPV’s AMRE can be determined clearly at any  point in time.  3.17 For a single - arrangement ISPV, there will be one AMRE that applies in respec t of the entire risk  exposure of the ISPV. For MISPVs, for the purposes of Article 7(3) of the Implementing Regulation,  the AMRE should be determined and fully funded at the level of each individual cell, except that, in  the case of a group of cells , 14   the AMRE will apply at the level of the group of cells in accordance  with Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles 2.2. For the purposes of this rule, the PRA expects the  MISPV to demonstrate how the group of cells will satisfy the fully funded requirement, and   also to  consider any risks arising from the inter - cell arrangements in their system of governance.  3.18 While the AMRE should be fully funded at all times, the AMRE can change over the life of the  arrangement. At the outset, the AMRE might consist only o f initial expense costs. At the point risk is  transferred to the ISPV the AMRE will increase in parallel to the amount of the risk transfer. Any  claims paid may result in the AMRE decreasing in parallel to the amount paid out, and thereafter the  AMRE will   reflect any remaining risk exposure. Where the contractual arrangements envisage  changes to the risk transferred and/or to the funding of the ISPV (for example, reinstatements,  stepped increases or decreases to the risk transfer, deferral of premium paymen ts, funding top - ups,  delayed risk period inception, or mechanisms that allow the ‘roll - over’ of funding between two  consecutive risk transfer arrangements) the PRA expects an ISPV to ensure that the contractual  provisions clearly set out how and when the r isk transfer and funding, and consequently the AMRE,  may change.  3.19 Given that Solvency II does not envisage a gap between risks being transferred to and funding  being received by the ISPV, the PRA expects an ISPV to ensure that the contractual provisio ns should  be such that any increase in the AMRE during the life of the arrangement is only effective if and  when the corresponding funds are paid - in. The PRA expects ISPVs to ensure that this is made clear in  the contractual provisions. Where arrangements   contain contractual features that could result in the  AMRE decreasing, the conditions governing return of capital to investors should be such that the  fully funded requirement is maintained. In general, the PRA expects that, unless clearly provided for  in   the terms of the contract with the cedant, injections or repayments of funds to match these kinds  14   A group of cells comprise the cells which form part of an arrangement between cells, referred to as an ‘inter - cell arrangement’. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   10  of contractual changes in the AMRE (as described above and in paragraph 3.16) should not take  credit for increases in the value of assets already invested.  3. 19A In light of paragraphs 3.18 and 3.19, where parties may wish to ‘roll - over’ funding from one  risk transfer arrangement to the other, the same funds should not be used to meet the AMRE of two  consecutive risk transfer arrangements at the same time. Thi s means that the funds being held to  meet the AMRE of an existing risk transfer arrangement should not, simultaneously, be counted to  meet the AMRE of a new risk transfer arrangement. However, once the AMRE of the existing risk  transfer is reduced and the   funds equal to the value of such reduction are released, some or all of  such funds can then be re - invested in the new risk transfer arrangement and be counted to meet the  AMRE of the new risk transfer arrangement.  3.20 The PRA neither requires nor prohibit s the use of limited recourse clauses that cap an ISPV’s  AMRE to a level no greater than its assets. The PRA does not expect limited recourse clauses to be  relied upon by the ISPV as an alternative to having assets to at least the value of the AMRE as set   out  in Article 326(1) of the Delegated Regulation, or having a sound risk management framework (in  accordance with Article 324 of the Delegated Regulation) and investment strategy (in accordance  with Article 327 of the Delegated Regulation). Nor should a l imited recourse clause undermine the  requirement that the risk transferred to the ISPV is effective at all times and incontrovertible.  However, provided that, in line with Article 324 of the Delegated Regulation, the ISPV has a sound  risk management framew ork which includes policies to mitigate and manage the risk that the limited  recourse clause is called upon, as well as an adequate investment strategy, the PRA considers that  limited recourse clauses may be used as a means of mitigating the risk from a co ntractual  perspective that the ISPV ceases to comply with the fully funded requirement on an ongoing basis.  3.21 In assessing the suitability of limited recourse clauses the PRA will expect an ISPV to  demonstrate that its risk management framework is sound   and its investment strategy is consistent  with its risk profile.  3.22 The presence of other off - balance sheet support arrangements such as contingent assets  (including guarantees, or other market or credit risk mitigation) could also be relevant to the  ef fectiveness of risk transfer and ensuring the ISPV is fully funded on an ongoing basis. However, as  outlined in paragraph 3.14 such arrangements should not be considered as a substitute for paid in  funds or justification to underfund the risk transfer.  3.2 3 It is the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate that the ISPV will be fully funded at all  times, consistent with Articles 318(h), 326 and 327 of the Delegated Regulation. Consequently, the  PRA expects that an ISPV should make clear in its applic ation how the components referred to in (ii)  and (iii) of the Appendix of this SS, work together to ensure the ISPV will remain fully funded and  maintain effective risk transfer throughout its existence.  Inter - cell arrangements  3.24 The RTR includes provis ions for PCCs to make arrangements between cells within strictly  confined parameters. HM Treasury has stated that, unless proposed arrangements between cells are  included within the scope of the Part 4A permission granted by the PRA, inter - cell arrangement s will  not be available to a PCC. Accordingly the PRA, pursuant to the requirement imposed on the PRA  under Regulation 7 of the RTR, will exercise its discretion to impose a limitation on the MISPV’s Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   11  permission with reference to the inter - cell arrangements   specified in an MISPV’s application for Part  4A permission. 15  3.25 Therefore, if an MISPV proposes to use inter - cell arrangements, the PRA expects the MISPV to  include a clear proposal for their use in its application, with the specific details of the arra ngements,  so that the PRA can assess the arrangements for inclusion within the MISPV’s SOP (as outlined in  paragraphs 2.13 to 2.18) at the time of authorisation. The PRA will expect the MISPV to describe  clearly the approach to any proposed inter - cell arra ngements, including how assets and AMRE will  be allocated amongst the group of cells, the circumstances under which assets would move back to  cell A (where cell A is the cedant - facing cell), details of how the group of cells will be fully funded at  all tim es, and the investment strategy of the cells. This should also include the approach to any  amendments or cancellations of inter - cell arrangements, and details of how the group of cells  continue to meet their AMRE, or evidence that the obligations of the gr oup of cells have been fully  discharged.  3.26 The PRA expects MISPVs to ensure that arrangements between cells are used with care and are  consistent with Solvency II requirements. 16   Accordingly, the PRA will consider the MISPV’s  explanation of how the propo sed arrangements comply with Solvency II, to ensure, for example, that  the proposed arrangements will not undermine the Solvency II requirement that each contractual  arrangement for risk transfer satisfies the fully funded requirement, that the claims of t he investors  are at all times subordinated to the reinsurance obligations of the ISPV, and that its solvency cannot  be affected by the insolvency of any cedant.  3.27 If an MISPV does not propose to use inter - cell arrangements, the SOP shall preclude the u se of  inter - cell arrangements. Should an MISPV subsequently propose the use of inter - cell arrangements  for the first time, or the use of inter - cell arrangements in a manner not specified within the MISPV’s  SOP, a subsequent application for a VOP should be   submitted to the PRA in the manner described in  paragraph 2.18.  Notification process  3.28 Where an MISPV makes use of an inter - cell arrangement in line with the approved approach in  its SOP, the MISPV is required to notify the PRA within five working days   of the arrangement being  entered into, pursuant to Regulation 69(2)(a) of the RTR. This includes notification of any  amendments or cancellations to a group of cells pursuant to Regulation 70(3) of the RTR. As set out  in Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles 4 .4, the MISPV must notify the PRA by submitting the Group of  Cells Notification Form. 17  Risk transfer requirements  3.29 A stand - alone ISPV may only take on a single contract for risk transfer from a single cedant. This  follows from Article 2 of the Implemen ting Regulation ,   which defines an MISPV. It may not take on a  contract for risk transfer from multiple cedants, nor can it take on more than one contract for risk  transfer from one cedant. Similarly, in line with Regulation 43(5) of the RTR, a single cell of a PCC  may onl y take on a single contract for risk transfer from a single cedant.  3.30   The PRA recognises that ISPVs may assume risks through reinsurance contracts or assume  insurance risks through ‘similar arrangements’ consistent with Article 318(a) of the Delegated  15   Para graphs 3.19 and 3.21 of HM Treasury’s response document, ‘R egulations implementing a new regulatory and tax framework for  Insurance Linked Securities: response to the consultation’ July 2017:   www.gov.uk/government/ consultations/insurance - linked -  securities - consultation .  16   Paragraphs 3.18 of HM Treasury’s response document .  17   See Insurance Special Purpose Vehicles 6.2. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   12  R egulation. Regardless of the form of the risk transfer, the PRA expects applicants to demonstrate  that   their activity complies   with Regulation   13A   of the   RAO   and   Article 318(a) of the Delegated  Regulation , and that   Article 320 of the Delegated Regulation   i s met, including   that the risk is  effectively transferred from the cedant to the ISPV and from the ISPV to the providers of debt or  other financing mechanism.  3.31 The PRA expects an applicant to describe clearly, in its application form, the details of   the  proposed risk transfer and demonstrate how the risk transfer complies with these requirements.  3.32 In the case of risk transfers   that   include non - indemnity triggers, the PRA expects applicants to  include specific details of the structure of the trigge r, eg any pay - out factors, geographic weightings,  exposures vectors, relative experience ratios, or regular portfolio resets. In line with Annex 1 of the  Implementing Regulation, where basis risk exists, applicants must submit a basis risk analysis as part  of their application.  Ongoing supervision of ISPVs  4.1   ISPVs will be subject to ongoing supervision by the regulators, and will need to comply with the  relevant Threshold Conditions and the relevant Solvency II requirements on an ongoing basis. The  PRA’s   ongoing assessment will be proportionate and risk - based, in line with the risks that the ISPV  poses to the PRA objectives and in accordance with applicable requirements.  4.2 In order to comply with the supervisory reporting requirements in Articles 325 and   326 of the  Delegated Regulation, the PRA expects applicants to explain their procedures for how the   ISPV  intends to monitor the assets of the vehicle on an ongoing basis, including ensuring the ISPV at all  times has assets the value of which is equal to o r exceeds the AMRE.  4.3 Also, consistent with Articles 325 and 326 of the Delegated Regulation and Articles 13 to 18 of  the Implementing Regulation, ISPVs are required to provide both a qualitative and a quantitative  report annually to the PRA, the latter   of which requires completing the templates that are designed  specifically for Special Purpose Vehicle reporting and are set out in Annexes II and III of the  Implementing Regulation.  4.4 Consistent with Article 325(5) of the Delegated Regulation, the PRA ex pects ISPVs to notify the  regulators immediately in the event of any changes which could affect its compliance with any  applicable requirements, including any breach of the fully funded requirement. As explained in  paragraph 2.18, any changes that would af fect any components of the SOP require the ISPV to apply  for a VOP before such changes can take effect. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   13  Appendi x:   Selected information likely to be relevant for defining the SOP  SOP component  i) Key contractual provisions (excluding fully funded, see (iii) below)   –   contract wording relied upon  for the ISPV to meet the Solvency II requirements, eg subordination clauses and insolvency  clauses.  ii) Fully funded approach   -   the ISPV’s approach to meeting the fully funded requirement, including:     Specific contractual provisions or mechanisms relied upon for the ISPV to satisfy and  continue to satisfy the fully funded requirement (eg capital release /distribution clauses, and  limited recourse clauses).     The ISPV’s approach to the triggering, timing and determination or calculation of any  changes to the amount of risk transfer and the AMRE throughout the life of the contract,  including any contractual   provisions that will be relied upon to meet the fully funded  requirements (eg the approach, terms and conditions for ramp - ups).     Details of all expense arrangements, both those included within the AMRE and those eligible  for exclusion from the AMRE (and   details of how they will be satisfied).     Details of any contingency actions to avoid a breach of the fully funded requirement (eg  contingent assets, top - ups, and limited recourse clauses).     A clear description of the approach to risk transfer(s), and how they remain effective (ie do  not revert back to the cedant) in all circumstances.     Details of any connected transaction that may undermine the fully funded or effectiveness  of the risk trans fer requirements.  iii) Investment policy   –   a policy which outlines how the ISPV will satisfy all the requirements in the  subparagraphs of Article 327 of the Delegated Regulation.  iv) Trigger mechanisms   –   the ISPV’s approach to any loss event triggers ( eg parametric, and index -  linked trigger).  v) Type of business   –   details of the type of arrangements and nature and class of the underlying  insurance ri sk proposed to be transferred.  vi) Qualifying holdings   –   the identity of any shareholders who meet th e criteria of the qualifying  holding definition as described in paragraphs 3.6 to 3.11.  vii) Sponsor of the ISPV   –   identity of the sponsor of the ISPV where this is not the cedant.  viii) Outsourced service provider of the ISPV   –   identity of any outsour ced service provider where the  outsourcing arrangement is considered critical, eg a management company carrying out the day - to -  day management duti es of the ISPV.  ix) Inter - cell arrangements (only applicable for MISPVs)   –   details of any proposed inter - cel l  arrangements, specifically:     the approach to allocating assets between the group of cells;     the approach to allocating AM RE between the group of cells;     the circumstances under which assets would move back to cell A, where cell A is the cedant -  facing cell;     details of how the group of cells will be fully funded at all times;     the investment strategy of the cells; and     the approach to any amendments or canc ellations of the arrangements. Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss

Authorisation and   supervision of insurance special purpose vehicles   May 2020   14  Annex:   SS 8 /1 7   updates  This annex details the changes that have been made to this SS following its initial publication in  December 2017.  Updates  May   2020  This SS has been updated alongside the publication of Policy   Statement (PS) 13/20   ‘Insurance special  purpose vehicles: Updates to authorisation and supervision’. 18   Details of the PRA’s feedback to the  response   are   available in Chapter 2 of the PS.  The PRA amended the following   sections of the SS :     the ‘documentation   requirements’ section to expand on (i) the PRA’s expectations regarding  the documentation to be submitted at the point of application; (ii) the PRA’s expectations  where outstanding commercial terms may only be finalised post - approval; and (iii) the PRA’s  e xpectations regarding independent - third party opinions (in particular legal opinions);     the ‘funding arrangements’ section to elaborate on the PRA’s expectations where there may be  changes to the risk and/or funding of the ISPV (in particular ‘roll - over’ me chanisms);     the ‘risk transfer requirements’ section which sets out its expectations on risk transfer  requirements (in particular where a ‘similar arrangement’ is being contemplated); and     other sections to improve readability and provide further detail, inc luding :   how the SOP may be  used in practice ;   how the PRA will treat similar ‘repeat’ transactions ;   and   a   remind er to   firms  that the PRA may require an assessment of the accounting consolidation if an ISPV is  consolidated into a group.  The PRA has also corr ected   references in paragraph 3.30 and corrected   typographical errors.  December 2017  The SS was updated to insert the statutory reference to the Risk Transformation Regulations 2017,  and include a reference to the FCA Statement.  18   May 2020:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/ispvs - updates - to - authorisation - and -  supervision . Superseded 23 December 2022: This Supervisory Statement has been superseded by the December 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2017/authorisation-and-supervision-of-insurance-special-purpose-vehicles-ss


