---
title: "SS915/ – Ss915 Update April 2020"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2020/ss915-update-april-2020.pdf"
---

# SS915/ – Ss915 Update April 2020

Supervisory Statement   |   SS9 / 15  Solvency II: Group supervision  April   2020  (Updating   March 2019 ) Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Supervisory Statement   |   SS9/15  Solvency II: Group supervision  April 2020  (Updating March   2019 )  Prudential Regulation Authority   I   20 Moorgate   I   London EC2R 6DA  ©   Bank of England   20 20 Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

C ontents  Introduction   1  Entities excluded from the scope of group supervision   1  Choice of calculation method   2  Group capital add - on   2  Centralised risk management [deleted]   2  5A   Availability of group own funds   2  5B   Regulatory determination on the availability of group own funds   4  Single own risk and solvency assessment report   6  Single solvency and financial condition report   6  Responsibilities   of the relevant insurance group undertaking   7  Supervision in the absence of third - country equivalence   7  Annex   9 Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   1  Introduction  1.1   This supervisory statement is addressed to   all   UK Solvency II firms   and to   the Society of Lloyd’s ,  which the PRA considers to be   a mixed activity insurance holding company. It sets out the   Prudential  Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations in respect of the Solvency II groups provisions.  1.2   Firms   should   note that if the group supervisor is a supervisory authority other than the PRA, the  PRA still expects UK insurers to comply   with   PRA rules relating to group supervision ( if they are part  of a group ). The PRA expects firms to behave in a way that contribu tes to effective group supervision  irrespective of which supervisory authority is acting as group supervisor.  1.3   This   supervisory   statement should be read in conjunction with the relevant European legislation,  the Group Supervision Part of the PRA Rulebook, T he Solvency 2 Regulations 2015 1   (‘the  Regulations’) and the PRA’s insurance approach document. 2  1.4   This   supervisory   statement expands on the PRA’s general approach as set out in its insurance  approach document. By clearly and consistently explaining its expec tations of firms in relation to the  particular areas addressed, the PRA seeks to advance its statutory objectives of ensuring the safety  and soundness of the firms it regulates, and contributing to securing an appropriate degree of  protection for policyhol ders. The PRA has considered matters to which it is required to have regard,  and it considers that this statement is compatible with the Regulatory Principles and relevant  provisions of the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006. This statement is not   expected to have  any direct or indirect discriminatory impact under existing UK law.  1.5   [Deleted]  Entities excluded from the scope of group supervision  2.1   Where   a group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, wishes to exclude entities from the  scope of grou p supervision, it will be expected to make a formal application to the PRA.   Where that  application is approved, the exclusion will be given effect by the PRA issuing a direction under  section 138A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), taki ng into account the criteria  in Article 214(2) of the   Solvency II   Directive 3   (‘the Directive’) .   The   PRA   expects   such   applications to  articulate the way in which the firm believes that the conditions set out in Article 214(2) of the  Directive are met.  2.2   The P RA   will   assess applications to exclude entities from the scope of group supervision under  Article 214 (2)   of the Directive on a case - by - case basis   and will consult   with   other   concerned  supervisory authorities   in the circumstances required by Regulation 12 o f the Regulations .  1   SI 2015/575 available at   www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2015/575/contents/made .  2   Available at   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/supervision .  3   Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the t aking - up and pursuit of the  business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) Text with EEA relevance. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   2  Choice   of   calculation method  3.1   Where the   PRA   is the group supervisor the PRA   may   decide, after consulting other concerned  supervisory authorities   where relevant   and the group   (as required by Regulation 16 of the  Regulations) , to apply to the group   either   method 2 (deduction and aggregation method) or a  combination of methods 1 and 2, where the exclusive application of method 1 (accounting  consolidation - based method) would not be appropriate , 4   having considered the provisions   of Article  328(1) of the Commission Delegated Regulation. 5  3.2   Where   a group for which the PRA is the group supervisor wishes to use method 2 or a  combination of methods 1 and 2,   the PRA expects it   to make a formal application to the PRA for a  direction under   section 138A of FSMA.  3.3   The PRA expects this application to articulate the way in which the firm believes that the  elements in Article 328(1) of the Commission Delegated Regulation should be considered in the  context of the firm’s application.  Group   capital   add - on  4.1   Where the PRA is the group supervisor, in considering whether the consolidated group   S olvency  C apital   R equirement (SCR) appropriately reflects the risk profile of the group, it may consider a  capital add - on for a group if the circumstances referred   to in Article 37(1)(a) to (d) of the Directive  arise at the group level.  4.2   In   particular , the PRA will consider imposing a capital add - on under Article 232 of the Directive  where   a :  (a)   specific   risk at group level is not sufficiently covered by the standard fo rmula or an internal  model; or  (b)   capital   add - on is imposed on a Solvency II undertaking in the insurance group because its risk  profile deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the group’s internal model.  Centralised   risk management [deleted]  5 A   Availability of group own funds  5A.1   Group Supervision 9.4 and Article 330 of the Commission Delegated Regulation place limits on  the own funds which can be included in the group solvency calculation, depending on their  availability to absorb losses any where in the group.  5A. 2 Groups are required   to set out their own assessment of any items which might be deducted  from own funds due to any significant restriction affecting the availability, fungibility or  transferability of own funds within the undertak ing.   Unless a formal determination is made by the  PRA in respect of a particular own funds item, firms should report own funds items as available  (notwithstanding their own assessment) except where the treatment of that own fund item is  4   Group Supervision 7 in the PRA Rulebook.  5   Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 of 10 October 2014 supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of   the European  Parliament and of the Council on the taking - up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) Text with EEA  relevance. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   3  specifically refere nced under Article 222 of the Directive and Article 330 of the Delegated  Regulation. 6   The PRA   expects firms to provide the appropriate level of detail in these assessments,  either in the solvency and financial condition report (SFCR) or in the regular supe rvisory report (RSR)  depending on the confidentiality of the information. These assessments would subsequently be  updated by the firm if there are material changes in the group or as agreed with the supervisor.  Firms are expected to comply with the EIOPA G roup Solvency Guideline 13 7   when making its own  assessment of availability of own funds at group level of related undertakings that are not  subsidiaries.  5A.2A   The PRA assess es   availability of own funds to cover the group solvency capital requirement  (SCR)   on the same basis for different types of groups. In particular, the PRA notes that the scope of  the assessment, elements of availability and assumptions as to the availability of different types of  own funds under Article 330 of the Delegated Regulation d o not differ depending on structure of the  group or the type of entity at its head. Furthermore, where a firm faces legal or other restrictions  from issuing other types of own funds as a result of being a mutual or company limited by  guarantee, it may plac e greater reliance on own funds issued by other group undertakings. The PRA  considers that it is important that such groups demonstrate that these own funds are not restricted  in meeting all types of losses arising anywhere in the group.  5A.2 A A   Since the current UK group solvency regime indicates that the group SCR is intended to  represent a diversified risk standard, the PRA makes the assumption that diversification benefits are  intended to be preserved when the valuation basis and quality of c apital used to meet that standard  correspond with UK group solvency principles. The consequence of this is that where standards that  are not built on the same principles as, and are not similar in outcome to, those applicable under the  UK group solvency re gime are applied to the valuation basis and quality of capital, then the PRA will  not assume that diversification benefits are intended to be preserved.  5A.2 B   Therefore, in principle, firms should not consider the solo SCR as restricting the availability o f  own fund items or assets at the level of the group, in the meaning of Article 330 of Commission  Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. However this does not prevent the PRA from challenging the  availability and transferability of own funds as assessed by gro ups. In the case where the PRA deems  that own fund items are unavailable, under Article 330 of the Commission Delegated Regulation the  PRA may require the group to make a deduction from group own funds. Groups should engage from  an early stage with their g roup supervisor should there be any doubt as to the availability and  transferability of group own fund items.  5A.2 C   The assumption made concerning the solo SCR as a restriction for the purposes of calculating  the group SCR does not alter the operation of t he solo SCR as a requirement for solo own funds.  5A.2 D   Firms should note that solo regulatory requirements applied under regimes which are not  built on the same principles as, or not similar in outcome to, the UK solvency regime   do not  necessarily apply th e same basis for valuing assets and liabilities, and therefore the availability of  capital contributed to the group solvency position and the transferability of assets from those  regimes may be different. In these cases the PRA will presume that solo regul atory requirements do  restrict the availability of capital or assets at the level of the group and so the PRA expects firms to  provide details how such own funds would be made available considering the elements set out at  Article   330 of the Commission Dele gated Regulation.  6   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/eli/re g_del/2015/35/oj .  7   EIOPA Guidelines on Group Solvency:   https://eiopa.europa.eu/publications/eiopa - guidelines/guidelines - on - group - solvency . Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   4  5A . 2 E   Not only could the different valuation bases and quality of capital permitted for the purpose  of local regulatory requirements affect the availability of capital which represents the difference  between the contribution to the group   SCR and the solo SCR, but also the availability of any surplus  capital in excess of the local solo regulatory requirement. The PRA expects firms to take this into  account when providing it with information on which the PRA will base its judgements as to th e  point at which other regulators would intervene to restrict flows of capital out of their jurisdiction.  5A.2 F   Firms will also need to classify separately own funds at group level in accordance with Articles  331 to 334 of the Solvency II Delegated Regulat ion including those own funds contributed by third  country insurance or reinsurance undertakings. The quality of capital will be one of the factors taken  into account by the PRA when determining when and at which level supervisors from jurisdictions  that d o not have a solvency framework similar to that applicable in UK may raise regulatory barriers  to reduce own funds availability at group level.  5A.3 When firms are providing details of how own funds could be made available to the group, the  PRA notes that   these may include actions to transfer own funds around the group, for instance  through paying dividends, or selling the assets of an undertaking or insurance holding company to  recapitalise group companies in difficulty. The PRA will consider these actions   when reviewing a  group’s assessment of transferability. In respect of parts of the group subject to requirements which  are not similar in outcome to those applicable under the UK group solvency regime, the PRA expects  groups to provide robust and credible   evidence that the apparent availability of own funds at the  group level is not compromised or effectively undermined by any legal or regulatory restrictions on  transferability, and that the suggested action resulting in the transfer of the own funds does   not  jeopardise an orderly resolution of the group. In particular, the PRA expects the evidence to cover,  as a minimum, the likely scenarios under which the actions could be taken, and the time that would  be required to execute the actions. For the own fund s considered available at group level, the PRA  expects groups to evidence that these own funds can be made available to the group within a  maximum of nine months. 8  5A.4 Under the current group solvency framework, the PRA may decide to apply to a group the  deduction and aggregation method (method 2) for calculation of its solvency requirements, which  would allow a firm to use local solvency rules when determining the requirements placed on  (equivalent) third - country related undertakings. However, the assessm ent of the availability at a  group level of an own funds item of such a related undertaking needs to be carried out by reference  to the UK groups provisions, not only local rules.  5A.5 To illustrate this point   further, the assessment of availability   should   demonstrate that both the  solo undertaking third - country rules and the   UK   group rules have been considered. For example, this  might mean that for an own funds item to be considered available at the level of the group, the firm  should be able to defer coup on payments both in the event of non - compliance with the solo  undertaking’s third - country capital requirement and the   UK   group SCR.  5B   Regulatory determination on the availability of group own funds  5B.1 Article 330 in the Delegated Regulation   sets out how own fund items of:   a related insurance or  reinsurance undertaking; insurance holding company; or mixed financial holding company should be  8   Article 330   of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35   of 10 October supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of the  European Parliament and of the Council on the taking - up and pursuit of the business of Insu rance and Reinsurance (Solvency   II) Text  with EEA relev ance . Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   5  assessed when considering their availability at the group level. The   A rticle identifies and describes  t he treatment of specific own fund items where those own fund items are either:  (i)   presumed to be unavailable unless the firm can demonstrate to the group supervisor that this  assumption is inappropriate; or  (ii)   not considered to be available in any case.  5B.1A Su bordinated liabilities and preference shares are among own fund items treated as in 5B.1  (i).   These instruments create legal obligations on the issuing entity to their holders. At the same  time, the issuing entity would not ordinarily have legal obligation s in relation to losses arising in  another group undertaking.   This restricts the ability of these instruments to absorb losses in other  group undertakings.  5B.1B   Where the PRA is the group supervisor, for a firm to satisfy the PRA that the own fund items  a re available to cover the group SCR, the firm needs to demonstrate that these own fund items are  available to absorb losses anywhere in the group. The PRA considers that a firm may demonstrate  this as follows:     Each insurance and reinsurance undertaking in   the Solvency II group has the right to claim  against the issuing entity if that insurance or reinsurance undertaking is wound up and there is a  shortfall for its policyholders and beneficiaries. This includes any insurance and reinsurance  undertakings acqu ired by the group after the issuance of the subordinated liabilities or  preference shares. Further more , the right of the   group   insurance and reinsurance undertakings  to claim on the issu ing entity   does not significantly increase group risks, including the level of  complexity when winding up and contagion risk for issuing entities that are insurance or  reinsurance undertakings.     The legal obligations of the issuing entity to the holders of the instru ments, including coupon  payments, are subordinated to any claims made by   group   insurance and reinsurance  undertakings that are being wound up.  5B.1 C   The   PRA considers that intra - group guarantees used for this purpose increase certain risks in a  group.   The   PRA would assess the level and volume of risks and the possible risks of contagion in the  group due to the intra - group guarantees.   The PRA would expect a firm to demonstrate that the  intra - group guarantees do not significantly increase the level of complex ity when winding up the  group. The PRA would also expect a firm to demonstrate that the intra - group guarantees do not  significantly increase contagion risk for issuing entities that are insurance or reinsurance  undertakings by exposing the solvency of the   issuing entity to losses in the   other   insurance and  reinsurance undertakings   in the group .  5B.1 D   The PRA considers that features that increase the impact of intra - group guarantees on these  risks include, but are not limited to, the following:  (i)   the issuing e ntity is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking;  (ii)   there are multiple insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the group;  (iii)   the issuing entity is a subsidiary of an entity that either has related insurance or reinsurance  undertakings ,   or is an insurance or r einsurance undertaking; and  (iv)   there are significant intra - group transactions, both in terms of volume and value. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   6  5B.1 E   As these features are present in most groups, the PRA expects that for most groups it will not  be appropriate to use intra - group guarantees   to make subordinated liabilities and preference shares  effectively available to absorb losses anywhere in the group. Further more , the PRA would expect a  firm to consider any other relevant group - specific factors that increase grou p complexity.   The PRA is  receptive to other approaches that firms may wish to propose when seeking to demonstrate  availability of subordinated liabilities and preference shares but these must address the legal  restrictions associated with such instruments. The PRA will assess such   proposals on a case - by - case  basis.  5B.1 F   Where   own fund items are not specifically identified in Article 33 0 of the Delegated  Regulation,   the firm sh ould assume that these own fund items   are available   to cover the group SCR.  The PRA may require the firm t o provide an assessment of availability of the own fund items which  the PRA will consider   to determine   whether the PRA agrees with the analysis.  5B.2 The PRA will communicate clearly to the firm the PRA’s determination as to whether an own  fund item should   be considered available or unavailable. This communication may be considered to  be a determination in the context of Supervisory Statement 11/16 9   and as set out in the Financial  Reporting Council’s (FRC) guidance, Practice Note 20 . 10  5B.3 Where the firm ha s not appropriately assessed any own fund items as being not available to  meet the group SCR, and the PRA has not assessed any items as not available, then the PRA  considers that no determination has been made.  5B.4 If the PRA has not provided a determinat ion on the availability of an own fund item where one  is required by the Directive and a firm has nevertheless assessed an item as unavailable, the PRA  recommends that the firm discusses this with the PRA, in order to obtain a formal determination of  the P RA’s position.  Single own risk and solvency assessment report  6.1   A   group , for which the PRA is the group supervisor, may apply to produce a single document  covering its own risk and solvency assessments (ORSAs) at the level of the group and at   the level of  an y subsidiary in the group at the same time   (Group Supervision 17.2(3)).   The PRA will assess  applications to produce a single ORSA document in consultation with the college of supervisors.  6.2   In   addition   to the ORSA conducted at group level, the PRA expects the group ORSA document to  include sufficient details on the solo firms included within the scope of the group ORSA such that  Conditions Governing Business 3.8   (solo ORSA) is satisfied in respect of ea ch of those firms.  Single solvency and financial condition report   (SFCR)  7.1   A   group , for which the PRA is the group supervisor, may apply to produce a single report on its  SFCR at the level of the group, and at the level of any subsidiary in the group which must be  individually identifiable   (Group Supervision 18.1(2)) . The PRA will asses s applications to produce a  single SFCR in consultation with the college of supervisors.  9   PRA Supervisory Statement 11/16 ‘Solvency II: external audit of the public disclosure requirement’, September 2016:  www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/solvency2 - external - audit - of - the - public - disclosure - requirement -  ss .  10   FRC Practice Note 20 (Revised) .   The audit of Insurers in the United Kingdom :   www.frc.org.uk/news/february - 2017/frc - publishes -  revised - practice - note - 20 . Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   7  7.2   The   PRA   expects the single document produced to cover the same level of detail on the solo  subsidiary firms as is required in the solo SFCR.  Responsibilities of the re levant insurance group undertaking 11  8.1   [Deleted]  8.2   For a group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, it is sufficient for one relevant insurance  group undertaking within an insurance group to undertake the following activities on behalf of the  group to:  (a)   s ubmit   the relevant data for and the results of the group eligible own funds and the group SCR  to the PRA, as referred to in Group Supervision 5.2;  (b)   ensure   ongoing compliance with the conditions for the prudent management of subsidiaries,  where the PRA has a greed to the use of a single document, the production of   the single  document covering all relevant ORSAs and the production of the single SFCR, as referred to in  Group Supervision 15.4(2);  (c)   inform the PRA in an event of non - compliance with the group SCR wit hin the appropriate  timeframes, as referred to in Group Supervision 4.4;   and  (d)   submit   a realistic recovery plan and take measures to ensure compliance with the group SCR in  an event of non - compliance with the group SCR within the appropriate timeframes, as r eferred  to in Group Supervision 4.4 .  (e)   [ Deleted ]  (f)   [Deleted]  Supervision in the absence of third - country equivalence  9.1   In   the   absence of equivalent group supervision, in accordance with   Group Supervision 20 ,   the  relevant Solvency II requirements will apply to th e worldwide group , unless the PRA has specified  ‘other methods’ to achieve the objectives of group   supervision . In the absence of a decision   by the  PRA to   specify ‘other methods’ for the group, then firms in that group are required to apply the  relevant So lvency II requirements to the worldwide group.  9.2   Firms   will be expected to make a formal application to the PRA, where they wish the PRA to  specify ‘other methods’ for the purposes of Group Supervision 20.1(2). Any such specification will be  given effect by   the PRA issuing a direction under   FSMA   section 138A. In its application, the PRA  expects a firm   to propose   other methods for the PRA to consider. Firms wishing to apply for a  direction may do so   using the usual waiver and modification process. The PRA will   assess such  applications on a case - by - case basis, taking into account the objectives of group supervision as  specified by the Directive.  11   Group Supervision 1 in the PRA Rulebook. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   8  9.3   If   firms   wish to submit an application before a relevant equivalence decision is made, they may  do so stating the assumptions made with regard to equivalence. Where appropriate, the PRA may  refrain from making a decision until an equivalence decision has been fina lised. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   9  Annex   –   SS9/15 updates  This annex details the changes that have been made to this   S upervisory   S tatement (SS)  following its initial publication in March 2015.  April   2020  The SS was amended   by inserting new paragraphs   in 5A.2A and   5B .1 A to 5B .1 E .   Paragraph  5A.2AA was previously paragraph 5A.2A, and 5B.1 F   was   previously without a   paragraph  number. The changes   were made   following Policy Statement   (PS)   10/ 20   ‘ Solvency II: Group  availability of subordinated liabilities and preference shares ’   to clarify the PRA’s approach  where a firm seeks to demonstrate that the Solvency II assumption that subordinated liabilities  and preference shares are   not effectively   available to cover group SCR is inappropriate in the  firm’s specific circumstances. The   SS clarifies that   the firm would need to   sa tisfy the PRA that  the se   own fund   items are available to absorb losses anywhere in the group.   It also clarifies   that  a firm   may   demonstrate this   through intra - group guarantees, but notes that this is not likely t o  be appropriate for most groups given specific features .   The SS also notes that t he PRA is  re ceptive to proposals of alternative approaches that   address the legal restrictions as sociated  with such instruments.  A number of syntactic   amendment s were also m ade to improve the clarity of the SS .  March 2019  The SS was amended in   paragraphs 5A.2A to 5A.2F in   C hapter   5A following   PS 9 /19   ‘Solvency II  –   Group own fund   availability ’ 12   to clarify   that in   assessing group own funds availability,   the  solo   Solvency Capital Requirement   should no longer be presumed   to be a barrier to  availability. The SS clarifies that the   PRA   expects such availability   analysis   to be provided only  where   a group insurer   is based in a jurisdiction that is not subject to   a regime that is similar to,  and not built on the same principles in relation to capital requirements and   quality of capital at  solo level   as,   the UK solvency regime .  This SS was also updated to simplify the formatting and aid readability, including   sequential  numbering of footnotes, the updating of hyperlinks to reflect the location on the Bank of  England’s website, and to make hyperlinks more easily identifiable.  July   2018  A number of amendments were made to the SS.  The SS was amended in   c hapters 2   through to 5A and   c ha pters 6 through 9 following PS17 /18  ‘Solvency II: Group supervision’ 13   to clarify for firms which aspect s of the PRA’s letter  ‘Solvency   II: An update on implementation’ published on 25 July 2014 on group supervision are  intended to have   effect as ongoing supervisory expectations. The SS was also revised to  address elements of Solvency II legislation after the publication of the letter and to update it  with references to the PRA Rulebook. The   chapter   on centralised risk management has bee n  deleted.  12   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/solvency - 2 - group - own - fund - availability .  13   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/solvency - 2 - group - supervision . Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss

Solvency II: Group supervision   April 2020   10  Availability of group own funds  A section has been added to the SS in chapter 5A that sets out the PRA ’s   expect ation s   of   firms  when   they   calculate the own funds available to the group. The SS clarifies that u nless a formal  assessment is made   by the PRA, firms   are expected to   assume that all group own funds are  available except where that own fund item is spec ifically excluded under Article   222 of the  Directive and Article   330 of the Delegated Regulation.  Regulatory determination   on the a vailab ility of group own fund s  This SS was updated to include additional guidance to auditors of the group   S olvency and  F inancial   C ondition   R eport (SFCR) in   C hapter 5B. The guidance describes the process that the  PRA expects auditors to follow when assessing   whether a regulatory determination has been  made in respect of the availability of group own funds. Specifically it outlines:     what the auditor is expected to consider a regulatory determination;     what assumption the auditor is expected to make when there ha s been no regulatory  determination made with respect to the availability of group own funds; and     the process that the auditor is expected to follow where a firm has assessed an own fund  item as unavailable; and     the PRA’s expectation that the auditor obtain   evidence on the firm’s processes for the  determination of the availability of own fund items. Superseded 7 July 2023: This SS has been superseded by July 2022 version, please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2015/solvency2-group-supervision-ss


