---
title: "SS913/ – Ss913 January 2026 Update"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2026/ss913-january-2026-update.pdf"
---

# SS913/ – Ss913 January 2026 Update

Securitisation: Significant Risk Transfer  Supervisory   s tatement |   S S 9 / 13  January 2026  (Updating July 202 5 ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority  Securitisation: Significant Risk Transfer  Supervisory   s tat e ment   |   SS 9/13  January 2026  (Updating July 2025)  © Bank of England 202 6  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   1  Contents  Contents   1  1: Introduction   2  2: High - level Significant Risk Transfer considerations   3  3: Significant Risk Transfer notifications and permissions   6  4: Regulatory capital calculation methodology and SRT   10  4A: Use of unfunded credit protection for synthetic SRT securitisations   11  5: Implicit support and SRT   13  6: High - cost credit protection and other SRT considerations   14  7: Excess spread in SRT securitisations   14  8: Assessment of Commensurate Risk Transfer (CRT) for portfolios of Standardised  Approach (SA) exposures   18  Annex   –   SS9/13 updates  2026   1 9  2025   19  2020   20  2019   20  2018   20  2017   21 This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   2  1 :   Introduction  1.1   This statement   applies to all firms to which the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook applies.  1.2   This statement sets out the Prudential Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations of  firms in respect of securitisation in the following chapters:  (2)   ‘High - level Significant Risk Transfer considerations’   —   general expectations of  firms seeking to obtain significant risk transfer (SRT) through securitisation;  (3)   ‘Significant Risk Transfer notifications and permissions’   —   process for notifying  the PRA of SRT transactions and for obtaining permission to undertake own  assessments of SRT;  (4)   ‘Regulatory capital calculation methodology and SRT’   —   methodologies firms  use to calculate post - securitisation risk weights in SRT transactions;  (4A)   Use of unfunded credit protection for synthetic SRT securitisations;  (5)   ‘Implicit Support and SRT’   —   the PRA’s approach to implicit support;  (6)   ‘High - cost credit protection and other SRT considerations’   —   factors likely to  affect the assessment of SRT transactions;  (7)   ‘Excess spread in SRT securitisations’   –   the PRA’s approach to excess spread  in SRT securitisations; and  (8)   ‘Assessment of commensurate risk transfer (CRT) for portfolios of Standardised  Approach (SA) exposures’   –   the PRA’s approach to assessing CRT for SA  portfolios.  1.3   The statement supplements the rules in the   Securitisation (CRR) Part   of the PRA  Rulebook. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   3  2:   High - level Significant Risk Transfer  considerations  2.1   The   Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook   requires any reduction in capital  requirements achieved through securitisation to be justified by a commensurate  transfer of risk to third parties. Where   the   reduction in   risk - weighted assets (RWA),  which would be achieved through a particular securitisation transaction, is not justified  by a commensurate transfer of risk, then SRT shall not be considered to have been  achieved by that transaction.  2.2   SRT is an ongoing requirement. Accordingly, the PRA expects firms to ensure that any  reduction in capital requirements achieved through securitisation continues to be  matched by a commensurate transfer of risk throughout the life of the transaction. The  PR A expects firms to take a substance over form approach to assessing SRT. Firms  should be able to demonstrate that the capital relief post - transaction adequately  captures the economic substance of the entire transaction, and is commensurate to  the retained   risks.  2.3   One indication of whether or not risk transfer is commensurate is whether the RWA  post - securitisation is commensurate with the RWA that would apply if the firm acquired  the securitised exposures from a third party. The PRA expects firms purchasing risk  tra nsfer products to give adequate consideration to all relevant factors when assessing  SRT, including the size of premiums paid and tranche thickness.  2.3A   The PRA expects firms to consider if tranches that are sold, or tranches on which  protection is purchased, are sufficiently thick such that the reduction in RWAs can be  justified by a commensurate transfer of risk to third parties. When considering  thickne ss of tranches sold or tranches on which protection is purchased, firms should  take into account all relevant factors related to the portfolio of securitised exposures.  2.4   When risk transfer transactions are structured as a group of linked transactions rather  than a single transaction, the PRA expects the aggregate effect of linked transactions  to comply with the   Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook . The PRA expects  firms to ensure that analysis of risk transfer incorporates all linked transactions,  particularly if certain transactions within a group of linked transactions are undertaken  at off - market rates.  2.5   The PRA expects the instruments used to transfer credit risk not to contain provisions  which materially limit the amount of risk transferred. For example, should losses or  defaults on the securitised exposures occur   —   ie deterioration in the credit quality   of  the underlying pool   —   the PRA expects the originator’s net cost of protection or the  yield payable to investors should not increase as a result. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   4  2.6   In order to ensure their continuing appropriateness, the PRA expects firms to update  the opinions of qualified legal counsel, required by the   Securitisation (CRR) Part of the  PRA Rulebook , as necessary to ensure their continuing validity. For example, an  opinion may need to be updated if relevant legal or regulatory provisions are amended,  or where a new decision or judgment of a court has a bearing on the continuing validity  of counsel’s   opinion.  2.7   The PRA expects relevant senior management of a firm to be appropriately engaged in  the execution of securitisation transactions that lead to a reduction in RWA.  2.8   For the purposes of such transactions, ‘relevant senior management’ means any  individuals performing Senior Management Functions (SMFs) with oversight of such  transactions, and any employees subject to the Certification Regime involved in the  transactions   (eg relevant Material Risk Takers (MRTs) under the Remuneration rules). 1  2.9   The PRA expects oversight of these transactions to be linked to Prescribed  Responsibility (PR) O (on ‘managing the allocation and maintenance of the firm’s  capital, funding and liquidity’) and, for small firms, to PR AA (on ‘implementing and  managing the f irm’s risk management policies and procedures’) and to PR CC (on  ‘managing the firm’s financial resources’). The oversight and approval of the features  that affect commensurate risk transfer and, hence, the amount of reduction in RWA  that may be achieved s hould be performed by the Chief Finance function (SMF 2) and  any Senior Manager holding PR O, or AA and CC, if a different person. The PRA  expects that the responsibility in relation to SRTs is reflected in the Statement of  Responsibilities of the SMF 2 an d any Senior Manager holding PR O, or AA and CC, if  a different person. Please also refer to paragraph 3.8(aa) below on the PRA’s  expectations regarding attestation by the relevant SMF(s) as part of an SRT  notification.  2.10   An SMF, while retaining accountability for oversight of these transactions, may rely on  expert input and/or delegate the act of signing and submitting notifications, where this  is consistent with the PRA’s expectations on reasonable steps and delegation. 2  2.11   The PRA does not operate a pre - approval process for securitisation transactions. The  PRA nevertheless expects a firm to discuss with its supervisor at an early stage  securitisation transactions that are material or have complex features, including any  non - sequential amortisation. Where a firm claims a regulatory capital reduction from  securitisation transactions in its disclosures to the market, the PRA expects such  disclosures to include caveats making clear the risk of full or partial re - characterisation  where this risk is material in the light of the PRA’s stated policy.  1   Supervisory statement (SS) 28/15   –   Strengthening Individual Accountability in Banking, available at:  https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2015/strengthening -  individual accountability - in - banking - ss .  2   See footnote   1 . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   5  2.12   Although this supervisory statement sets out the PRA’s expectations regarding  securitisation, these expectations are also relevant for other similar credit protection  arrangements.  2.13   The PRA will seek to ensure that the securitisation framework is not used to undermine  or arbitrage other parts of the prudential framework. In relation to other similar credit  protection arrangements, including those subject to credit risk mitigation or t rading  book rules, the impact of certain features (eg significant premiums, call options or  excess spread) may cast doubt on the extent of risk transferred and the resulting  capital assessment. 3   Features which result in inadequate capital requirements  compared to the risks a firm is running may result in the credit protection not being  recognised or the firm being subject to extra capital charges in their Total Capital  Requirement (TCR) in the f orm of Pillar 2 add - ons. Credit protection arrangements in  general are subject to the same overarching principles as those in the securitisation  framework.  2.14   Where a firm achieves SRT for a particular transaction, the PRA expects it to continue  to monitor risks related to the transaction to which it may still be exposed. The PRA  expects firms to consider the capital planning implications of securitised assets  r eturning onto their balance sheets. The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part of  the PRA Rulebook requires firms to conduct regular stress testing of their securitisation  activities and off balance sheet exposures. 4   The PRA expects those stress tests to  consider the firm - wide impact of stressed market conditions on those activities and  exposures and the implications for other sources of risk, for example, credit risk,  concentration risk, counterparty risk, market ris k, liquidity risk and reputational risk.  The PRA expects a firm’s stress testing of securitisation activities to take into account  existing securitisations and pipeline transactions. The PRA expects a firm to have in  place procedures to assess and respond   to the results of that stress testing and would  expect them to be taken into account under Pillar 2.  (Articles 244   and   245   of the Securitisation (CRR) Part ,   Article   337   of the Market Risk:  Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, and the Internal Capital Adequacy  Assessment Part of the PRA Rulebook )  3   Article 194(2) of the   Credit Risk Mitigation   ( CRR ) Part of the PRA Rulebook   requires firms to, ‘take all  appropriate steps to ensure the effectiveness of the credit protection arrangement and to address the risks  related to that arrangement’.  4   See also SS31/15 ‘ The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Supervisory  Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) ’ . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   6  3: Significant Risk Transfer notifications and  permissions  Requirements for originators to use securitisation risk weights  3.1   Articles 244(2) and 245(2) of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook state  that significant credit risk will be considered as transferred in either of the following  cases provided that the possible reduction in RWA is justified by a commensurate  transfer of credit risk to third parties:  (1)   the   RWA   of the mezzanine securitisation positions held by the originator institution  in the securitisation do not exceed 50% of the risk - weighted   assets   of all  mezzanine securitisation positions existing in this securitisation;  (2)   the originator institution does not hold more than 20% of the exposure value of the  first loss tranche in the securitisation, provided that both of the following conditions  are met:  (i)   the originator can demonstrate that the exposure value of the first loss tranche  exceeds a reasoned estimate of the expected loss on the underlying exposures  by a substantial margin;  (ii)   there are no mezzanine securitisation positions.  (3)   [ Deleted ]  3.1A   Article 245A of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook requires a firm to  notify the PRA of each transaction in relation to which it is relying on the deemed  transfer of significant credit risk under Article 244(2) or Article 245(2).  3.1B   The Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook states that an originator institution  must not recognise significant credit risk transfer where the PRA has imposed a  requirement on the originator institution under section 55M of the Financial Services  an d Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) or a direction under section 192C of FSMA to preclude  this. Please also refer to the PRA’s statement of policy (SoP) ‘The PRA’s approach to  the exercise of powers referred to in Articles 244(3)(b), 245(3)(b), 254(4) and 258(2) of  the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook’ in this regard.  3.1C   The Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook provides that, by derogation from  Article 244(2) or Article 245(2), an originator institution may recognise significant credit  risk transfer in relation to a securitisation where it has received the prior p ermission of This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   7  the PRA under section 138BA FSMA. Please also refer to the SoP ‘The PRA’s  approach to waivers and permissions under the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook’ in this regard.  (Articles 244, 245 and 245A of the Securitisation (CRR) Part and Article 337 of the Market  Risk: Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook)  [Deleted]  [D eleted ]  [Deleted]  [D eleted ]  Exemption from notification of significant risk transfer  3.6   A firm would not need to make a notification under   Article 245A of the Securitisation  (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook   when it is either (1) seeking to achieve capital relief  by   deducting or   applying a 1,250% risk weight to all retained positions where permitted  under   Articles 244(1)(b) or 245(1)(b) of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook or (2) risk - weighting a position in a qualifying securitisation under Article  260A or Article 262A of the Securitisation (CRR) Part . In such cases, a firm should  consider whether the characteristics of the transaction are such that the PRA would  reasonably expect prior notice of it.  (Articles 24 4 ,   245 , 245A, 260A and 262A of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook )  SRT Notifications  Process for submitting notifications  3.7   When informing the PRA of a transaction in accordance with   the Securitisation (CRR)  Part of the PRA Rulebook , the information should be sent simultaneously via email to  the SRT notifications inbox   SRT@bankofengland.co.uk   and to the firm’s usual  supervisory contact.  Information to be provided  3.8   A firm’s notification should include sufficient information to enable the PRA to assess  whether the possible reduction in RWA which would be achieved by the securitisation  is justified by a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third parties. Consistent   with  Fundamental Rule 7, the PRA expects firms to be open and cooperative and disclose  any relevant information of which the PRA would reasonably expect notice. The PRA  expects such information to include at least the following: This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   8  (aa)   a summary of the transaction that contains sufficient information for the PRA  to understand its structure, economics and regulatory implications, including  an attestation by the relevant SMF(s) referred to in the penultimate sentence  of paragraph 2.7(ii) t hat the information provided in the summary is accurate  and complete and that SRT has been achieved;  (a)   details of the securitisation positions, including rating, exposure value and  RWA broken down by securitisation positions sold and retained;  (b)   a copy of the SRT policy applied to the transaction, including details of the  methodology and any models used to assess risk transfer;  (c)   a statement of how all relevant risks are incorporated into the SRT  assessment and how the full economic substance of the transaction is taken  into consideration;  (d)   the SRT calculation, setting out why the firm believes the capital relief  proposed is commensurate with the credit risk transferred to third parties;  (e)   details of reliance on external credit assessment institutions (ECAIs) in the  SRT assessment;  (f)   a description of the risks being retained;  (g)   key transaction documentation and any relevant supporting documents ;  (h)   copies of investor and internal presentations on the transaction;  (i)   details of the underlying assets (including asset class, geography, tenor,  rating, spread, collateral, exposure size);  (j)   details of the transaction structure;  (k)   details of any termination options (eg call options);  (l)   details of the cash flow between parties involved in the transaction;  (m)   details of the ratings and pricing of bonds issued in the transaction;  (n)   details of any connected parties involved in the transaction;  (o)   details of the rationale for the transaction; This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   9  (p)   details of the rules in the   Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook   that  the firm is relying on;  (pp)   a comparison with relevant previous transactions, highlighting changes that  may be relevant to the PRA’s assessment and commenting on their rationale,  or a statement that no such transactions have been identified; and  (q)   details of the governance process for the transaction, including details of any  committees involved in approving the transaction.  Communicating PRA   feedback   on notified transactions  3.9   Following review of sufficient information provided by the firm, t he PRA will   provide  feedback as appropriate to   the firm   on the PRA’s   view   on commensurate risk transfer.  The PRA’s review will focus on the proportion of credit risk transferred   —   including any  transaction features which undermine effective risk transfer   —   compared to the  proportion by which RWA is reduced as a result of the tra nsaction.  3.10   The PRA does not intend to pre - approve transactions. Instead, the PRA will provide  feedback   on whether it considers commensurate risk transfer to have been achieved at  a point in time, which may be after a transaction has closed. The PRA may reassess  its judgement of the achievement of commensurate risk transfer if the level of credit  risk trans fer in a transaction changes materially.  3.10A   Please also refer to paragraph 3.1B above and the PRA’s SoP ‘The PRA’s approach to  the exercise of powers referred to in Articles 244(3)(b), 245(3)(b), 254(4) and 258(2) of  the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook’.  [Deleted]  [Deleted] This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   10  4: Regulatory capital calculation  methodology and SRT  4.1   Originators must transfer a significant amount of credit risk associated with securitised  exposures to third parties to be able to apply the securitisation risk weights set out in  the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook , and any associated reduction in  capital requirements must be matched by a commensurate transfer of risk to third  parties.  4.2   As part of the notification and permissions process, the PRA expects a firm to inform it  of the methodology the firm intends to use to calculate securitisation capital  requirements. The PRA will generally be more sceptical of the achievement of  commensurat e risk transfer for transactions where the regulatory capital calculation  used produces very low capital requirements. Where the method used to calculate  regulatory capital requirements post securitisation results in a particularly significant  reduction in   capital requirements, the PRA will apply a high degree of scrutiny in its  assessment of whether commensurate risk transfer is achieved.  4.3   When evaluating SRT transactions which apply the Securitisation External Ratings  Based Approach (SEC - ERBA), the PRA will also have regard to whether the chosen  credit rating agency has appropriate expertise in the asset class being rated.  4.4   Pending further international regulatory guidance, the PRA considers it appropriate to  clarify its interpretation of the Loss Given Default (LGD) value firms should use for the  purpose of calculating regulatory capital requirements using   the   Securitisation Internal  Ratings - Based Approach   ( SEC - IRBA ) , for SRT securitisations of income - producing  real estate (IPRE) assets where firms have adopted the slotting approach. For this  purpose, the PRA expects firms to use the LGD value specified in Article 259(6)   of t he  Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook .  (Articles 244   and   245   of the Securitisation (CRR) Part   and   Article   337   of the Market Risk:  Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   11  4A: Use of unfunded credit protection for  synthetic SRT securitisations  4A.1   Originators may use either funded credit protection or unfunded credit protection to  achieve SRT where relevant requirements and supervisory expectations are met.  4A.2   The use of unfunded credit protection for synthetic SRT securitisations can pose  additional prudential risks relative to funded credit protection. These include:  (i)   a potentially higher risk of late payment or non - payment of the credit protection  amount when a borrower or counterparty defaults; and  (ii)   a risk that the unfunded credit protection provider may be downgraded and then cease  to be eligible to provide unfunded credit protection, necessitating alternative  arrangements to continue to achieve SRT. The PRA therefore considers the use of  unfunded cr edit protection for SRT to be a complex feature for purposes of paragraph  2.8 above.  4A.3   The PRA also reminds originators using unfunded credit protection for SRT to comply  with:  •   the requirements in the   Credit Risk Mitigation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook  relating to the use of unfunded credit protection and the related supervisory  expectations in SS17/13   –   Credit risk mitigation ;  •   the requirements relating to unfunded credit protection for SRT in Article 249   of the  Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook , including the requirements  regarding the ECAI rating of the protection provider; and  •   the stress - testing rules in the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Part of the  PRA Rulebook and related supervisory expectations in paragraph 2.11 of this SS.  4A.4   The PRA expects originators, as part of the monitoring and stress - testing mentioned in  paragraph 2.11 of this SS, to assess the risk of a downgrade of the protection provider  and the implications for the effectiveness of the unfunded credit protection and   the  eligibility of the provider to continue to provide the unfunded credit protection, and to  reflect this in their capital planning. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   12  (Articles 244, 245 and 249 of the Securitisation (CRR) Part, Article 337 of the Market Risk:  Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, and the Internal Capital Adequacy  Assessment Part of the PRA Rulebook) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   13  5: Implicit support and SRT  5.1   The PRA will monitor the support provided by a firm to its securitisation transactions,  and   will consider this carefully in the assessment of commensurate risk transfer. As  part of firms’ ongoing consideration of risk transfer, the PRA expects them to consider  the support they have provided to securitisation transactions.  5.2   If a firm is found to have provided support to a securitisation, the expectation that the  firm will provide future support to its securitisations is increased. The PRA will take  account of this increased expectation in future assessments of commensurate ri sk  transfer for that firm.  5.3   The PRA expects securitisation documentation to make clear, where applicable, that  repurchase of securitisation positions by the originator beyond its contractual  obligations is not mandatory and may only be made at arm’s length.  5.4   [ Deleted ]  5.5   If a firm fails to comply with Article 250(1)   of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook , the PRA may require it to disclose publicly that it has provided  noncontractual support to its transaction.  (Articles   244, 245 and 250 of the Securitisation (CRR) Part, Article 337 of the Market Risk:  Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part, and the Internal Capital Adequacy  Assessment Part of the PRA Rulebook ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   14  6: High - cost credit protection and other SRT  considerations  6.1   Some transactions transfer little or no economic risk from the protection buyer to the  protection seller, but may nevertheless result in a reduction in regulatory capital  requirements. An example of such a transaction - type is one in which protection is  pur chased on a junior tranche and a high premium is paid for that protection.  6.2   Generally, the amount of premium paid will not materially affect the assessment of  whether SRT is achieved. This is because either:  •   the protection payment payable upon default from protection seller to protection  buyer is significantly larger than the overall premium payable to the protection  seller; or  •   the payment of premium leads to an immediate incurred cost.  6.3   However, there comes a point at which the premium payable for protection can reduce  significantly the economic risk that is transferred from the protection buyer to protection  seller. A premium payable of 100% of the protection amount could leave the prote ction  buyer in a position over the life of the transaction that was no better than if protection  had not been purchased.  6.4   The PRA expects originators seeking to apply the securitisation risk weights to  synthetic securitisations to take into account all relevant factors to assess the extent of  risk transferred. As well as the size and timing of amounts payable to the protectio n  seller, the circumstances in which those amounts are payable can undermine the  effectiveness of risk transfer. The PRA expects firms seeking capital relief through  synthetic securitisations to incorporate premiums in their assessment of SRT. In  particula r, the following transaction features may have a significant impact on the  extent of risk transfer:  •   premium which is guaranteed in all or almost all circumstances, eg premium which  is payable upfront or deferred;  •   those that could result in the amount of premium payable for protection being  significantly greater than the spread income on the assets in the portfolio or similar  to the size of the hedged position; and  •   those under which the protection buyer retains the expected loss through higher  transaction costs to the counterparty, in the form of premium or otherwise. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   15  6.5   Originators should have regard to the statement on high cost credit protection issued  by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . 5  6.6   The   Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook   requires maturity to be assessed  in considering SRT. When assessing the effective maturity of synthetic securitisations,  the PRA expects firms to consider whether the transaction contains an option to  terminate the protection at the discretion of the prot ection buyer. The PRA will consider  the following to be examples of features which generally indicate a positive incentive  for the protection buyer to call a transaction, or at least to constitute grounds fo r  discussion with the PRA prior to the conclusion of the transaction:  •   the transaction contains terms, such as payments at maturity or payments upon  early termination or significant premiums, which may reduce risk transfer;  •   the transaction includes a requirement for the protection buyer to incur additional  costs or obligations if they do not exercise their option to terminate the protection;  and  •   there are pre - agreed mechanisms, for example ‘at - market unwinds’, where the  protection seller and protection buyer agree that the transaction can be terminated  in the future at a ‘market’ value and specifies aspects of how the value is  calculated.  ( Articles   244 and 245 of the Securitisation (CRR) Part and Article 337 of the Market Risk:  Simplified Standardised Approach (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook )  5   www.bis.org/publ/bcbs_nl16.ht m This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   16  7: Excess spread in SRT securitisations  7.1   No standardised definition of excess spread exists in market practice, however it can  be considered as ‘finance charge collections and other fee income received in respect  of the securitised exposures net of costs and expenses’. The PRA recognises that  exc ess spread can be formulated in a range of different ways, and expects firms to  take a ‘substance over form’ approach to the treatment of excess spread features in  SRT securitisations. The PRA considers that the presence of excess spread in  synthetic secur itisations (SES), when junior in the capital structure to sold or protected  tranches, impacts the transfer of credit risk to third parties by providing credit  enhancement, such that the protection buyer has retained risk.  7.2   If SRT transactions are structured such that SES provides credit enhancement, firms  should assess the risks retained by SES, adequately quantify such risk, and reflect this  retained risk in their post - transaction capital requirements. For the purposes of  c alculating capital requirements, the PRA considers it appropriate to treat SES as an  off - balance sheet securitisation position.  7.3   Firms should measure the nominal value of the off - balance sheet securitisation  position as a reasoned and prudent estimate of the credit enhancement provided by  SES, for example as compared to a retained first loss tranche. Firms   should   (subject to  Article 253 of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook)   apply   a 1,250% risk  weight to this nominal   value ,   or deduct from capital . 6  7.4   The presence of excess spread in traditional securitisations (TES) may, in certain  transactions where accounting derecognition has not been achieved, impact the  transfer of credit risk to third parties, where it is used to absorb losses thus providing  cred it enhancement to more senior tranches. The PRA is primarily concerned where  the excess spread results from the securitised exposures being sold below their  market value, for instance, where the securitised exposures are sold at par value  despite their fai r value being higher than par. In these circumstances, the PRA expects  firms to treat the credit enhancement provided by TES in a similar manner to the  approach described for SES, by measuring the credit enhancement provided and  (subject to Article 253 of the Securitisation   (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook)   applying  a 1,250% risk weight or deducting from capital accordingly. The PRA is open to  considering alternative methods for firms to measure the credit enhancement provided.  As the PRA considers excess spr ead a complex feature, firms may approach the PRA  6   Deduct securitisation positions from Common Equity Tier 1 items in accordance with Article 36(1)(k)   of the  Own Funds   and Eligible Liabilities   (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   17  to discuss potential transactions with such a feature ahead of execution, as set out in  paragraph 2.8.  (Articles 24 4 , 24 5   and 253   of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   18  8: Assessment of Commensurate Risk Transfer  (CRT) for portfolios of Standardised Approach  (SA) exposures  8.1   The PRA expects firms to consider the thickness of tranches sold to third parties or  tranches on which protection is purchased, for portfolios of SA exposures, in a prudent  manner. When justifying that commensurate risk has been transferred, the PRA  expect s firms to compare the detachment point (D) of tranches sold, or on which  protection is purchased, against the K SA   (RWA in respect of the underlying exposures  as if they had not been securitised multiplied by 8% and divided by the value of the  underlying e xposures) of the portfolio.  8.2   The PRA considers it prudent for firms to apply a scalar of 1.5 to K SA   to determine the  minimum value of D for the purpose of justifying commensurate transfer of risk. The  PRA considers the 1.5 scalar to K SA   to be a prudent fall - back and will consider a lower  scalar to K SA , if firms can evidence this is more appropriate for a particular transaction.  The PRA will remain flexible in assessing firms’ evidence for a reduced scalar to K SA  and will consider the use of external data sources where it is comparable   and  representative.  (Articles   24 4   and   24 5   of the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA Rulebook ) This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   19  Annex   –   SS 9 / 13   updates  This annex details the changes that have been made to this SS following its initial publication  in   December 2013 1 :  202 6  January 2026  Following publication o f PS 3/26   –   Restatement of CRR requirements   –   2027 implementation  – final , 2   this SS was updated   to reflect the restatement of CRR requirements in the PRA  Rulebook.   This SS was also updated to   transfer   supervisory expectations on the permissions  process for SRT   from   SS9/13, with small adjustments, to the   s tatement of   p olicy (SoP)   –   The  PRA’s approach to waivers and permissions under the Securitisation (CRR) Part of the PRA  Rulebook.  This policy is effective from   Friday   1 January 202 7 .  2025  July 2025  Following publication of   PS 12 / 25   –   Restatement of CRR and Solvency II requirements in  PRA Rulebook   –   2026 implementation , 3   this SS   was updated to   introduce Chapter 4A on the  use of unfunded credit protection for synthetic SRT securitisations, clarify SMF oversight of  SRT securitisations and information to be provided with SRT notification . This is detailed in  paragraphs   2.7, 3.8 and Chapter 4A. The PRA made some other non - material updates to   this  SS , such as updates to CRR references an d,   in the case of the updates to paragraph 3. 1 ,  amendments for consistency with the relevant provisions of the CRR .  This policy is effective from   Thursday 1 January 2026 .  1   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2013/securitisation - ss .  2   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement -  of - crr - requirements - final - policy - statement .  3   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2025/july/restatement - of -  crr - and - sii - requirements - in - pra - rulebook - policy - statement . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   20  2020  July   2020  Following publication of PS 17 / 20   ‘ ‘Responses to Occasional Consultation Paper 3/20   –  Chapter 8: Securitisation: Updates to Significant Risk Transfer’ , 4   this SS was updated to  clarify that non - sequential amortisation features constitute complex features in Significant  Risk Transfer (SRT) transactions.   This is detailed in paragraph   2.8.  This policy is effective from   Wednesday 22 July 2020 .  The PRA also made minor formatting and typographical corrections to this SS to improve  readability.  2019  Version effective from 1 Jan 2019  All references to CRR Articles were updated to reflect the relevant articles in the ‘Amended  CRR’ 5   that takes effect from 1 January 2019. A reference to the previous Ratings Based  Approach was deleted in paragraph 4.3. In paragraph 7.1 the reference to the CRR definition  of excess spread is removed.  2018  Version effective from 15   November   2018  Following publication of PS 29 / 18   ‘ Securitisation: The new EU framework and Significant Risk  Transfer , this SS was updated   and renamed ‘Securitisation: Significant Risk Transfer’. The  PRA published two versions of this SS. 6  Paragraph 2.3a was added to set out the PRA’s expectations on the thickness of tranches  that are sold or tranches on which protection is purchased. Paragraph 2.7 was updated to  clarify the PRA’s expectations of firms’ senior management engagement in the ex ecution of  SRT transactions. Paragraph 3.8 was updated to reference Fundamental Rule 7. Paragraph  4.3 was added to clarify that the PRA will have regards to credit rating agency expertise in  accordance with Chapter 9 of the EBA Guidelines on Significant Ri sk Transfer. Paragraph  4.4 was added to include a clarification regarding the LGD value for the purpose of  calculating regulatory capital requirements using SEC - IRBA, for SRT securitisations of  4   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2020/occasional -  consultation - paper - march - 2020 .  5   EU Regulation 2017/2401 amending EU Regulation No 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit  institutions and investment firms .  6   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/securitisation - the -  new - eu - framework - and - significant - risk - transfer . This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027

Bank of England   |   Prudential Regulation Authority   Page   21  income - producing real estate (IPRE) assets where firms have adopted the slotting approach.  Chapter 7 was added and outlines the PRA’s expectations as regards the prudential  treatment of excess spread in synthetic and traditional securitisations. Chapter 8   was added  and outlines the PRA’s expectations in respect of firms’ assessment of CRT for SA portfolios.  201 7  July   2017  This SS was updated following publication of PS19/17, ‘Responses to CP2/17 ‘Occasional  Consultation Paper’ . 7   The PS aligned the requirements in Chapter 5 of this SS relating to  implicit support and SRT with the final EBA Guidelines on implicit support for securitisation  transactions, which came into force on 1 March 2017. 8   Paragraph 5.4 has therefore been  removed and paragraphs 5.3 and 5.5 have been updated. Chapter 7 has also been removed  as this has been superseded by the ECAI Mapping Implementing Technical Standard for  securitisation, 9   which came into force on 1 November 2016.  7   Available at:   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2017/responses - to - cp - 2 - 17 .  8   Available at:   www.eba.europa.eu/publications - and - media/press - releases/eba - publishes - final -  guidelines - implicit - support .  9   ECAI Mapping ITS: Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1801. This SS is effective from 1 January 2027 and was published as part of PS3/26. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2026/january/restatement-of-crr-requirements-final-policy-statement Effective 1 January 2027


