---
title: "SS915/ – Ss915 November 2024 Update"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2024/ss915-november-2024-update.pdf"
---

# SS915/ – Ss915 November 2024 Update

Supervisory Statement | SS9/15  Solvency II: Group Supervision  November   2024  (Updating   February   202 4 )

Supervisory Statement | SS9/15  Solvency II: Group Supervision  S   November   2024  (Updating   February   202 4 )  9/15   –   Solvency II: Group Supervision  © Bank of England 2024  Prudential Regulation Authority | 20 Moorgate | London EC2R 6DA  February 2024

Contents  Introduction   3  1A   Insurance holding company assessment   4  Entities excluded from the scope of group supervision   5  Choice of calculation method   5  3A   Mixed - Activity Insurance Holding Company led group   6  4   Group capital add - on   6  Centralised risk management [deleted]   6  5A   Availability of group own funds   6  5B   Regulatory determination on the availability of group own funds   8  Single own risk   and solvency assessment report   10  Single solvency and financial condition report (SFCR)   10  Responsibilities of the relevant insurance group undertaking   10  Supervision in the absence of   a   HMT overseas regime designation   11  Annex   –   SS9/15 updates

SS9/15   –   Solvency II: Group Supervision  Introduction  1.1   This supervisory statement is addressed to all UK Solvency II firms and to the Society of Lloyd’s,  which the PRA considers to be a mixed - activity insurance holding company. It sets out the Prudential  Regulation Authority’s (PRA’s) expectations in respect o f the Solvency II groups provisions.  1.2   Firms should note that if the group supervisor is a supervisory authority other than the PRA, the  PRA still expects UK insurers to comply with PRA rules relating to group supervision (if they are part  of a group). The PRA expects firms to behave in a way t hat contributes to effective group supervision  irrespective of which supervisory authority is acting as group supervisor.  1.3   This supervisory statement should be read in conjunction with the Group Supervision Part of  the PRA Rulebook, statement of policy (SoP)   –   The PRA’s approach to insurance group supervision A.1 ,  the European Insurance and Occupational Pension Authority’s (EIOPA) Guidelines on group solvency  (as at IP completion day) 1 , , the PRA’s insurance approach document 2 , and the relevant provisions of  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).  1.4   This supervisory statement expands on the PRA’s general approach as set out in its insurance  approach document. By clearly and consistently explaining its expectations of firms in relation to the  particular areas addressed, the PRA seeks to advance its sta tutory objectives of ensuring the safety  and soundness of the firms it regulates, and contributing to securing an appropriate degree of  protection for policyholders. The PRA has considered matters to which it is required to have regard,  and it considers th at this statement is compatible with the Regulatory Principles and relevant  provisions of the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006. This statement is not expected to have  any direct or indirect discriminatory impact under existing UK law.  1.5   [Deleted]  1.6   Firms should also refer to:  •   Firms should also refer to: Bank of England and PRA Statement of Policy ‘Interpretation of  EU Guidelines and Recommendations: Bank of England and PRA approach after the UK's  withdrawal from the EU’ (December 2020);   3  •   PRA Supervisory Statement SS1/19 ‘Non - binding materials: The PRA's approach after the  UK's withdrawal from the EU’ (December 2020); 4   and  •   PRA Supervisory Statement SS2/19 ‘PRA approach to interpreting reporting and disclosure  requirements and regulatory transactions forms after EU withdrawal’ (December 2020). 5  A.1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/the - PRA - approach - to - insurance - group - supervision - sop .  1   EIOPA Guidelines on Group Solvency:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/paper/2020/december/gl - group -  solvency.pdf.  2   Available at   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/supervision .  3   April 2019:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/interpretation - of - eu - guidelines - and - recommendations - boe - and - pra -  approach - sop  4   April 2019:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/non - binding - pra - materials - the - pras -  approach - after - the - uks - withdrawal - from - the - eu - ss  5   April 2019:   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2019/pra - approach - to - interpreting - reporting - and -  disclosure - reqs - and - reg - trans - forms - ss

1A   Insurance holding company assessment  1A.1   Where a group for which the PRA is the group supervisor, wishes to demonstrate that a holding  company is a mixed - activity insurance holding company, the group’s assets, revenue, and capital  requirements derived from insurance or reinsurance undertakings, i ncluding ancillary insurance  services undertakings, should be assessed by the firm as follows:  •   Assets: Gross assets would be considered by the PRA in the first instance. In cases where  gross figures are below the 50% threshold whereas net figures are above the 50% threshold  or vice versa, firms should calculate the proportion of group assets on both   gross and net  basis and refer each to the 50% threshold. The PRA would apply discretion in choosing the  most appropriate measure, taking into consideration a group’s specific circumstances .   A  Solvency II basis of valuation would be considered most appropr iate. An IFRS/UK GAAP basis  of valuation may be acceptable as an alternative, provided that there is a consistent basis of  measurement.  •   Revenues: Gross revenues would be considered by the PRA in the first in stance. Gross  revenue refers to total revenue; net revenue   is the revenue after factoring in outward  reinsurance.   In cases where gross figures are below the 50% threshold whereas net figures  are above the 50% threshold or vice versa, firms should calculate the proportion of group  revenues on both gross and net basis and refer each to the 50% threshold. The PRA would  a pply discretion in choosing the most appropriate measure, taking into consideration a  group’s specific circumstances. Revenues should be based on the consolidated financial  statements. If none are ava ilable, the statutory accounts under IFRS/UK GAAP may be  acceptable provided that there is a consistent basis of measurement.  •   Capital requirements: Solvency Capital Requirements (SCR) should be based on the  contribution to the consolidated group SCR 6   or based on local solvency capital requirements  if a Method 2 waiver has been granted.  •   Where there are material intra - group transactions, firms should calculate assets and  revenue both gross and net of intra - group transactions.  1A.2   The calculations above should be demonstrated using the latest full year reference period, or a  three - year average of the past three years where there is material year - on - year volatility in the  figures. Where the period under consideration does not fully r eflect the normal business mix of the  group, a different reference period would be used at the PRA’s discretion.  1A.3 The PRA may reassess a holding company’s classification following events that might alter a  group’s structure. These could include but are not limited to: acquisitions, disposals or changes in  control applications whereby the financial measures of ass ets, revenue and capital requirements are  impacted in such a manner that it changes a holding company’s classification from a mixed - activity  insurance holding company to an insurance holding company, or vice versa.  1A.4 The PRA expects firms to provide any relevant information where requested to support the  PRA’s assessment on whether a holding company is an insurance holding company or a mixed -  activity holding company.  6   Chapter 11.2A of the Group Supervision Part of the PRA Rulebook.

1A.5 Firms wishing to apply for a waiver or modification to relevant aspects of the revised definition  of an insurance holding company may do so using the usual waiver and modification process. The  relevant aspects of the definition that the PRA may consid er a waiver or modification in relation to  include:  (a)   t he   application of one or more of the three measures (assets, revenue and capital  requirements); or  (b)   the inclusion of ancillary insurance services undertakings in the insurance part of a group.  1A.6 Firms would need to make a formal application to the PRA. The PRA will assess such  applications on a case - by - case basis in accordance with the usual statutory tests, taking into account  the objectives of group supervision.  Entities excluded from the scope of group supervision  2.1   Where a group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, wishes to exclude entities from the  scope of group supervision, it will be expected to make a formal application to the PRA. Where that  application is approved, the exclusion will be given effect by   the PRA issuing a direction under  section 138A of FSMA, taking into account the criteria in Group Supervision   2.3.  2.2   The PRA will assess applications to exclude entities from the scope of group supervision under  Group Supervision 2.3 on a case - by - case basis.  2.3   The group should ensure that any risks   that might be posed by the excluded entity are  adequately identified and managed. Those risks should be reflected in the ORSA and the capital  adequacy assessments of group entities that are a t   risk (including modelled assessments).  Choice   of   calculation method  3.1   Where the PRA is the group supervisor the PRA may decide,   after consulting other concerned  supervisory authorities   where relevant and the group, to apply to the group either method 2  (deduction and aggregation method) or a combination of methods 1 and 2, where the exclusive  application of method 1 (accounting consolidation - based method) would not be appropriate 7 ,  having considered   Group Supervision   statement   of   policy   3.2 - 3. 5 .  3.1A   A group using method 1 may temporarily be allowed to use more than one calculation  approach when calculating the group solvency capital requirement by adding the results of two or  more calculation approaches (eg internal model and internal model; or intern al model and   standard  formula)   considering Group Supervision   statement   of   policy   5 .1 - 5 . 6 .   The PRA expects the group to  make a formal application to the PRA for a   permission   under section 138BA of FSMA.  3.2   Where a group for which the PRA is the group supervisor wishes to use   method 2 or a  combination of methods 1 and 2, the PRA expects it to make a formal application to the PRA for a  direction under section 138A of FSMA.  3.3   The PRA expects this application to articulate the way in which the firm believes that   Group  Supervision   3.2 - 3 . 5   should be considered in the context of the firm’s application.  7   Group Supervision 7 in the PRA Rulebook.

3.4   A group using method 2 may also apply to include in the group solvency calculation the local  capital requirements calculated for its overseas sub - groups   taking into account the factors in   the  Group Supervision   statement   of   policy   4 . 2 - 4 . 3 .   The PRA expects the group to make a formal  application to the PRA for a   permission   under section 138BA of FSMA.  3A   Mixed - Activity Insurance Holding Company led group  3A.1 Where the PRA is the   group supervisor of a group that is headed by a mixed - activity insurance  holding company, the group solvency calculation will apply to any part of the group satisfying the  criteria of Group Supervision 2.1 (1), (2) or (3) rather than to the mixed - activity   insurance holding  company .  Group   capital   add - on  This chapter has been deleted.  Centralised risk management [deleted]  5A   Availability of group own funds  5A.1 Group Supervision   9.4 places   limits on the own funds which can be included in the group  solvency calculation, depending on their availability to absorb losses anywhere in the group.  5A.2   Group s   Supervision 9.4   requires   groups   to   assess whether   items   cannot be made available to  cover the group SCR and   which   should   be deducted from   the group’s   own funds . The PRA expects  firms to consider whether deductions should be made   due to any significant restriction affecting the  availability, fungibility or transferability of own funds within the undertaking.   The PRA expects firms  to provide this assessment to the PRA. In continuing with existing practice, the PRA does not expect  firms to make ded uctions until the PRA has considered the firm’s   own assessment and confirms that  it agrees with such deductions ,   except where the treatment of that own fund item is specifically  referenced under Group Supervision   9.4 to 9.4E .   The PRA expects firms to provide the appropriate  level of detail in these   assessments in   the solvency and financial condition report (SFCR) . These  assessments would subsequently be updated by the firm if there are material changes in the group  or as agreed with the supervisor. Firms are expected to comply with the EIOPA Group Solvency  Guideline   13 8   when making its own assessment of availability of own funds at group level of related  undertakings that are not subsidiaries.  5A.2A The PRA assesses availability of own funds to cover the group solvency capital requirement  (SCR) on the same basis for different types of groups. In particular, the PRA notes that the scope of  the assessment, elements of availability and assumptions   as to the availability of different types of  own funds under   Group Supervision 9.4   do not differ depending on structure of the group or the  type of entity at its head. Furthermore, where a firm faces legal or other restrictions from issuing  other types of   own funds as a result of being a mutual or company limited by guarantee, it may place  greater reliance on own funds issued by other group undertakings. The PRA considers that it is  important that such groups demonstrate that these own funds are not restric ted in meeting all types  of losses arising anywhere in the group.  5A. 2AA Since the current UK group solvency regime indicates that the group SCR is intended to  represent a diversified risk standard, the PRA makes the assumption that diversification benefits are  8   EIOPA Guidelines on Group Solvency:   https://www.eiopa.europa.eu/publications/guidelines - group - solvency_en

intended to be preserved when the valuation basis and quality of capital used to meet that standard  correspond with UK group solvency principles. The consequence of this is that where standards that  are not built on the same principles as, and are not simi lar in outcome to, those applicable under the  UK group solvency regime are applied to the valuation basis and quality of capital, then the PRA will  not assume that diversification benefits are intended to be preserved.  5A.2B Therefore, in principle, firms should not consider the solo SCR as restricting the availability of  own fund items or assets at the level of the group, in the meaning of   Group Supervision 9.4 .  However this does not prevent the PRA from challenging the availability and transferability of own  funds as assessed by groups. In the case where the PRA deems that own fund items are unavailable,  the PRA may require the group to make a deduction from gr oup own funds. Groups should engage  from an early stage with   their group supervisor should there be any doubt as to the availability and  transferability of group own fund items.  5A.2C The assumption made concerning the solo SCR as a restriction for the purposes of calculating  the group SCR does not alter the operation of the solo SCR as a requirement for solo own funds .  5A.2D Firms should note that solo regulatory requirements applied under regimes which are not  built on the same principles as, or not similar in outcome to, the UK solvency regime   do not  necessarily apply the same basis for valuing assets and liabilities, and therefore the availability of  capital contributed to the group solvency position and the transferability of assets from those  regimes may be different. In these cases the PRA w ill presume that solo regulatory requirements do  restrict the availability o f capital or assets at the level of the group and so the PRA expects firms to  provide details on how such own funds would be made available considering the elements set out   in  SoP   –   The PRA’s approach to insurance group supervisio n .  5A.2E Not only could the different valuation bases and quality of capital permitted for the purpose  of local regulatory requirements affect the availability of capital which represents the difference  between the contribution to the group SCR and the solo S CR, but also the availability of any surplus  capital in excess of the local solo regulatory requirement. The PRA expects firms to take this into  account when providing it with information on which the PRA will base its judgements as to the  point at which o ther regulators would intervene to restrict flows of capital out of their jurisdiction.  5A.2F Firms will also need to classify separately own funds at group level in accordance with   Group  Supervision 8A - 8D   including those own funds contributed by third - country insurance or reinsurance  undertakings. The quality of capital will be one of the factors taken into account by the PRA when  determining when and at which level supervisors from jurisdictions that do n ot have a solvency  framework similar to that applicable in the UK may raise regulatory barriers to reduce own funds  availability at group l evel.  5A.3 When firms are providing details of how own funds could be made available to the group, the  PRA notes that these may include actions to transfer own funds around the group, for instance  through paying dividends, or selling the assets of an undertaking   or insurance holding company to  recapitalise group companies in difficulty. The PRA will consider these actions when reviewing a  group’s assessment of transferability. In respect of parts of the group subject to requirements which  are not similar in outco me to those applicable under the UK group solvency regime, the PRA expects  groups to provide robust and credible evidence that the apparent availability of own funds at the  group level is not compromised or effectively undermined by any legal or regulatory   restrictions on  transferability, and that the suggested action resulting in the transfer of the own funds does not  jeopardise an orderly resolution of the group. In particular, the PRA expects the evidence to cover,  as a minimum, the likely scenarios unde r which the actions could be taken, and the time that would

be required to execute the actions. For the own funds considered available at group level, the PRA  expects groups to evidence that these own funds can be made available to the group within a  maximum of nine months. 9  5A.4 Under the current group solvency framework, the PRA may decide to apply to a group the  deduction and aggregation method (method 2) for calculation of its solvency requirements, which  would allow a firm to use local solvency rules when determining the   requirements placed on third -  country related undertakings   (in a designated overseas regime 10 ) . However, the assessment of the  availability at a group level of an own funds item of such a related undertaking needs to be carried  out by reference to the UK groups provisions, not only local rules.  5A.5 To illustrate this point further, the assessment of availability should demonstrate that both the  solo undertaking third - country rules and the UK group rules have been considered. For example, this  might mean that for an own funds item to be considere d available at the level of the group, the firm  should be able to defer coupon payments both in the event of non - compliance with the solo  undertaking’s third - country capital requirement and the UK group SCR.  5B   Regulatory determination on the availability of group own funds  5B.1   SoP   –   The PRA’s approach to insurance group   supervision   sets   out how own fund items of :   a  related insurance or reinsurance undertaking; insurance holding company; or mixed financial holding  company should be assessed when considering their availability at the group level.   Group  Supervision   9.4 A   –   9.4B   identifies   and describes the treatment of specific own fund items where  those own fund items are either:  (i)   presumed to be unavailable unless the firm can demonstrate to the group supervisor that  this assumption is inappropriate   (see paragraphs 3.12 to 3.14 of SoP   –   The PRA’s approach  to insurance group supervision   which set out the PRA’s policy on modifications to 9.4A ) ; or  (ii)   not considered to be available in any case.  5B.1A Subordinated liabilities and preference shares are among own fund items treated as in 5B.1  (i). These instruments create legal obligations on the issuing entity to their holders. At the same  time, the issuing entity would not ordinarily have legal ob ligations in relation to losses arising in  another group undertaking. This restricts the ability of these instruments to absorb losses in other  group undertakings.  5B.1B Where the PRA is the group supervisor, for a firm to satisfy the PRA that the own fund items  are available to cover the group SCR, the firm needs to demonstrate that these own fund items are  available to absorb losses anywhere in the group. The PRA c onsiders that a firm may demonstrate  this as follows  •   Each insurance and reinsurance undertaking in the Solvency II group has the right to  claim against the issuing entity if that insurance or reinsurance undertaking is wound up  and there is a shortfall for its policyholders and beneficiaries. This includes a ny insurance  and reinsurance undertakings acquired by the group after the issuance of the  subordinated liabilities or preference shares. Furthermore, the right of the group  insurance and reinsurance undertakings to claim on the issuing entity does not  9   3.13 (c)   of   SoP   –   The PRA’s approach to insurance group supervision :   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential -  regulation/publication/2024/the - PRA - approach - to - insurance - group - supervision - sop .  10   Designated overseas regime under   regulation   11   for the purposes of regulation   13   of the   Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings  (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023 (overseas insurance regime).

significantly increase group risks, including the level of complexity when winding up and  contagion risk for issuing entities that are insurance or reinsurance undertakings.  •   The legal obligations of the issuing entity to the holders of the instruments, including  coupon payments, are subordinated to any claims made by group insurance and  reinsurance undertakings that are being wound up.  5B.1C The PRA considers that intra - group guarantees used for this purpose increase certain risks in a  group. The PRA would assess the level and volume of risks and the possible risks of contagion in the  group due to the intra - group guarantees. The PRA woul d expect a firm to demonstrate that the  intra - group guarantees do not significantly increase the level of complexity when winding up the  group. The PRA would also expect a firm to demonstrate that the intra - group guarantees do not  significantly increase co ntagion risk for issuing entities that are insurance or reinsurance  undertakings by exposing the solvency of the issuing entity to losses in the other insurance and  reinsurance undertakings in the group.  5B.1D The PRA considers that features that increase the impact of intra - group guarantees on these  risks include, but are not limited to, the following:  (i)   the issuing entity is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking;  (ii)   there are multiple insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the group;  (iii)   the issuing entity is a subsidiary of an entity that either has related insurance or  reinsurance undertakings, or is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking; and  (iv)   there are significant intra - group transactions, both in terms of volume and value.  5B.1E As these features are present in most groups, the PRA expects that for most groups it will not  be appropriate to use intra - group guarantees to make subordinated liabilities and preference shares  effectively available to absorb losses anywhere in the   group. Furthermore, the PRA would expect a  firm to consider any other relevant group - specific factors that increase group complexity. The PRA is  receptive to other approaches that firms may wish to propose when seeking to demonstrate  availability of subord inated liabilities and preference   shares,   but these must address the legal  restrictions derived from with such instruments. The PRA will assess such proposals on a case - by -  case basis.  5B.1F Where   own fund items are not specifically identified in   Group Supervision 9.4   to   9.4E,   the firm  should assume that these own fund items are available to cover the group SCR. The PRA may require  the firm to provide an assessment of availability of the own fund items which the PRA will consider  to determine whether the PRA agrees with the ana lysis.  5B.2 The PRA will communicate clearly to the firm the PRA’s determination as to whether an own  fund item should be considered available or unavailable. This communication may be considered to  be a determination in the context of Supervisory Statement 11/16 11   and as set out in the Financial  Reporting Council’s (FRC) guidance, Practice Note 20 12 .  11   PRA Supervisory Statement 11/16 ‘Solvency II: external audit of the public disclosure requirement’, September 2016:  http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2016/solvency2 - external - audit - of - the - public - disclosure -  requirement - ss  12   Practice Note 20 (Revised). The audit of Insurers in the United Kingdom:   http://www.frc.org.uk/news/february - 2017/frc - publishes -  revised - practice - note - 20

5B.3 Where the firm has not appropriately assessed any own fund items as being not available to  meet the group SCR, and the PRA has not assessed any items as not available, then the PRA  considers that no determination has been made.  5B.4 If the PRA has not provided a determination on the availability of an own fund item and a firm  has nevertheless assessed an item as unavailable, the PRA recommends that the firm discusses this  with the PRA, in order to obtain a formal determination of   the PRA’s position.  Single own risk and solvency assessment report  6.1 A group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, may apply to produce a single document  covering its own risk and solvency assessments (ORSAs) at the level of the group and at the level of  any subsidiary in the group at the same time (Group Supervis ion 17.2(3)).  6.1A   If permission is granted to produce a single ORSA report covering the group and the firm level  ORSA findings, the group will be required to submit the single ORSA report at the same time to the  group supervisor and all the relevant supervisory authorities   whose firms report their ORSA findings  in the single ORSA report.  6.2 In addition to the ORSA conducted at group level, the PRA expects the group ORSA document to  include sufficient details on the solo firms included within the scope of the group ORSA such that  Conditions Governing Business 3.8 (solo ORSA) is satisfied in respect of each of those firms.  Single   solvency and financial condition report (SFCR)  7.1   A group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, may apply to produce a single report on its  SFCR at the level of the group, and at the level of any subsidiary in the group which must be  individually identifiable (Group Supervision 18.1(2)).  7.2   The PRA expects the single document produced to cover the same level of detail on the solo  subsidiary firms as is required in the solo SFCR.  Responsibilities of the relevant insurance group undertaking 13  8.1   [Deleted]  8.2   For a group, for which the PRA is the group supervisor, it is sufficient for one relevant insurance  group undertaking within an insurance group to undertake the following activities on behalf of the  group to:  (a) submit the relevant data for and the results of the group eligible own funds and the group  SCR to the PRA, as referred to in Group Supervision 5.2;  (b) ensure ongoing compliance with the conditions for the prudent management of subsidiaries,  where the PRA has agreed to the use of a single document, the production of the single  document covering all relevant ORSAs and the production of the single SFCR,   as referred to  in Group Supervision 15.4(2);  13   Group Supervision 1 in the PRA Rulebook.

(c) inform the PRA in an event of non - compliance with the group SCR within the appropriate  timeframes, as referred to in Group Supervision 4.4; and  (d) submit a realistic recovery plan and take measures to ensure compliance with the group SCR  in an event of non - compliance with the group SCR within the appropriate timeframes, as  referred to in Group Supervision 4.4.  (e) [Deleted]  (f) [Deleted]  Supervision in the absence of   a   HMT overseas regime designation  9.1   I f   a   third country   is not   a designated overseas regime 14 , in accordance with Group Supervision  20, the relevant PRA requirements will apply to the worldwide group, unless the PRA has specified  ‘other methods’ to achieve the objectives of group supervision. In the absence of a decision by the  PRA to specify ‘oth er methods’ for the group, then firms in that group are required to apply the  relevant PRA requirements to the worldwide group.  9.2   Firms will be expected to make a formal application to the PRA, where they wish the PRA to  specify ‘other methods’ for the purposes of Group Supervision 20.1. Any such specification will be  given effect by the PRA issuing a direction under FSMA section 138 A. In its application, the PRA  expects a firm to propose other methods for the PRA to consider. Firms wishing to apply for a  direction may do so using the usual waiver and modification process. The PRA will assess such  applications on a case - by - case basis,   taking into account the objectives of group supervision.  9.3   If firms wish to submit an application before a relevant   designated overseas regime  determination   is made, they may do so stating the assumptions made with regard to   the  determination . Where appropriate, the PRA may refrain from making a decision until a   HMT  determination   has been finalised.  14   Designated overseas regime under   regulation   11   for the purposes of regulation   14   of the   Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings  (Prudential Requirements) Regulations 2023 (overseas insurance regime).

Annex   –   SS9/15 updates  This annex details the changes that have been made to this Supervisory Statement (SS) following its  initial publication in March 2015.  November   202 4  The SS was amended as part of   policy statement ( PS )   15 /24   –   Review of Solvency II: Restatement of  assimilated law, 15   inserting new paragraph 3.A .  February   202 4  The SS was amended   as part of   PS2 /2 4 16 .   The SS was amended by inserting new paragraphs 2.3,  3.1A, 3.4 and 6.1A as a result of the proposals in CP12/23. Similarly, chapter 4 has been deleted as a  part of CP12/23.   References to the CDR   in articles 3.3, 5A.1, 5A.2, 5A.2A, 5A.2B, 5A.2F, 5B.1F   and   9. 2  have been updated to   reference   the relevant areas in the PRA’s policy materials.   The SS was  amended in paragraphs 1.3, 3.1, 5A.2D and 5B.1, following the introduction of (SoP)   –   The PRA’s  approach to insurance group supervision A.1 .   A number of   syntactic amendments were also made to  improve the clarity of the SS.  July 2022  The SS was amended by inserting a new Chapter 1A. The changes were made following Policy  Statement (PS) 6/22 ‘Solvency II: definition of an insurance holding company’ 17 . The SS was updated  to clarify the PRA’s expectations on the information required from firms in order to distinguish an  insurance holding company from a mixed - activity insurance holding company. The SS was also  amended throughout to update referencing as   a result of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.  April 2020  The SS was amended by inserting new paragraphs in 5A.2A and 5B.1A to 5B.1E.   Paragraph 5A.2AA  was previously paragraph 5A.2A, and 5B.1F was previously without a paragraph number. The  changes were made following PS10/20 ‘Solvency II: Group availability of subordinated liabilities and  preference shares’ to clarify the PRA’s approach   where a firm seeks to demonstrate that the  Solvency II assumption that subordinated liabilities and preference shares are n ot effectively  available to cover group SCR is inappropriate in the firm’s specific circumstances. The SS clarifies that  the firm would need to satisfy the PRA that these own fund items are available to absorb losses  anywhere in the group. It also clarifie s that a firm may demonstrate this through intra - group  guarantees, but notes that this is not likely to be appropriate for most groups given specific features.  The SS also notes that the PRA is receptive to proposals of alternative approaches that address   the  legal restrictions associated with such instruments.  A number of syntactic amendments were also made to improve the clarity of the SS.  15   www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/november/review - of - solvency - ii - restatement - of - assimilated - law -  policy - statement.  16   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/february/review - of - solvency - ii - adapting - to - the - uk -  insurance - market - policy - statement .  A.1   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ - /media/boe/files/prudential - regulation/consultation - paper/2023/june/cp1223app17.pdf  17   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2021/september/solvency - ii - definition - of - an - insurance -  holding - company .

March 2019  The SS was amended in paragraphs 5A.2A to 5A.2F in Chapter 5A following PS9/19 ‘Solvency II   –  Group own fund availability’ 18   to clarify that in assessing group own funds availability, the solo  Solvency Capital Requirement should no longer be presumed to be a barrier to availability. The SS  clarifies that the PRA expects such availability analysis to be provided only where a gro up insurer is  based in a jurisdiction that is not subject to a regime that is similar to, and not built on the same  principles in relation to capital requirements and quality of capital at solo level as, the UK solvency  regime.  This SS was also updated to   simplify the formatting and aid readability, including sequential  numbering of footnotes, the updating of hyperlinks to reflect the location on the Bank of England’s  website, and to make hyperlinks more easily identifiable.  July 2018  A number of amendmen ts were made to the SS.  The SS was amended in chapters 2 through to 5A and chapters 6 through 9 following PS17/18  ‘Solvency II: Group supervision’18 to clarify for firms which aspects of the PRA’s letter ‘Solvency II:  An update on implementation’ published on 25 July 2014 on grou p supervision are intended to have  effect as ongoing supervisory expectations. The SS was also revised to address elements of Solvency  II legislation after the publication of the letter and to update it with references to the PRA   Rulebook.  The chapter on centralised risk management has been deleted.  Availability of group own funds  A section has been added to the SS in chapter 5A that sets out the PRA’s expectations of firms when  they calculate the own funds available to the group. The SS clarifies that unless a formal assessment  is made by the PRA, firms are expected to assume that   all group own funds are available except  where that own fund item is specifically excluded under   Article 222 of the Directive and Article 330  of the D elegated Regulation.  Regulatory determination on the availability   of group own funds  This SS was updated to include additional guidance to auditors of the group Solvency and Financial  Condition Report (SFCR) in Chapter 5B. The guidance describes the process that the PRA expects  auditors to follow when assessing whether a regulatory determi nation has been made in respect of  the availability of group own funds. Specifically it outlines:  •   what the auditor is expected to consider a regulatory determination;  •   what assumption the auditor is expected to make when there has been no regulatory  determination made with respect to the availability of group own funds; and  •   the process that the auditor is expected to follow where a firm has assessed an own fund  item as unavailable; and  •   the PRA’s expectation that the auditor obtain evidence on the firm’s processes for the  determination of the availability of own fund items  18   https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2018/solvency - 2 - group - own - fund - availability




