---
title: "Underwriting Standards For Buy TO Let Mortgage Contracts SS"
source: "https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2024/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss.pdf"
---

# Underwriting Standards For Buy TO Let Mortgage Contracts SS

This   near-final   SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss  Supervisory Statement | SS13/16  Underwriting standards for buy-to- let mortgage contracts  September 2024  (Updating September 2016) Superseded

Prudential Regulation Authority  20 Moorgate  London EC2R 6DA  Prudential Regulation   Authority, registered office: 8 Lothbury, London EC2R 7HH.  Registered in England and Wales No: 07854923 This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

Supervisory Statement   |   SS13/16  Underwriting standards for buy -  to - let mortgage contracts  September   2024  (Updating September 2016)  © Prudential Regulation Authority   20 24 This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

C ontents  Introduction   5  Affordability testing   6  Portfolio landlords   9  Risk management   10  [Deleted]   10  [Deleted]   10  Annex: SS13/16 updates   11 This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024   5  Introduction  1.1   This s upervisory statement   (SS)   is relevant to   all firms regulated by the Prudential  Regulation Authority (PRA) that undertake buy - to - let lending that is not already subject to  Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulation. The FCA regulates buy - to - let lending to related  persons through their Mortgages   and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB)  and lending in relation to consumer buy - to - let mortgage contracts through the Mortgage  Credit Directive Order 2015 : 1 2   this   SS   does not apply to either of these types of lending. The  PRA expects regulated firms to ensure that the standards contained in this   SS   are adopted by  other firms undertaking buy - to - let lending within their groups.  1.2   The purpose of this   SS   is to:  (a)   outline the PRA’s expectation of minimum standards that firms should use to underwrite  buy - to - let mortgage contracts .  (b)   [Deleted]  1.3   For t he purposes of paragraph 1.2(a)   firms should consider a buy - to - let   mortgage contract  as a contract   under which:  (a)   the lender provides credit to the borrower;  (b)   the obligation of the borrower to repay is secured by a mortgage on land in the United  Kingdom and in pounds sterling;  (c)   at least 40% of the land is used, or is intended to be used, as or in connection with a  dwelling; and  (d)   the land subject to mortgage cannot at any time be occupied as a dwelling by the  borrower or by a related person, and is to be occupied on the basis of a rental agreement  (however for the purposes of this   SS , an agreement to dwell in a property or part of a  property for less than one month is not ‘occupation on the basis of a rental agreement’)  but excludes :  (e)   corporate lending   (for the purposes of this   SS   ‘corporate lending’ is lending conducted by  firms’ corporate or commercial banking divisions using their specialist underwriting  processes, including where lending is for mixed purposes (eg, commercial real estate)   or  where the purpose of the lending is investment   or   development finance) ;  (f)   an application from an existing borrower for   c onsent - to - let , 3   however existing consent - to -  let exposures should be taken into account when assessing affordability for a new buy - to -  let mortgage   contract ;   and  (g)   a buy - to - let mortgage contract with a term of 12 months or less .  1   Mortgage Credit Directive Order 2015   (S.I. 2015/910)   (as amended) :   www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2015/9780111127742 .  2   A   ‘ consumer buy - to - let mortgage contract’ means a buy - to - let mortgage contract which is not entered into by the borrower  wholly or predominantly for the purposes of a business carried on, or intended to be carried on, by the borrower.  3   A consent - to - let product is a residential mortgage contract where the borrower is an owner - occupier and applies to let  property on a temporary basis. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

6   Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024  1.4   To avoid existing borrowers being adversely affected when re - mortgaging, the  expectations referred to in paragraph 1.2(a) do not apply to buy - to - let remortgages where  there is no additional borrowing beyond the amount currently outstanding under the existi ng  buy - to - let contract to the firm or to a different firm. In determining the amount   of borrowing  on the new buy - to - let contract , arrangement fees, professional fees and administration costs  can   be excluded.  1.5   Firms should assess all buy - to - let mortgage contracts from the perspective of whether the  borrower will be able to pay the sums due. The underwriting standards set out in this   SS  should form minimum standards, regardless of whether the borrower is an individual or a  company.  Affordability testing  2.1   When assessing   the affordability of   a buy - to - let mortgage contract, the PRA expects firms  to   use a method which will   include :  (a)   w hether the income derived from the property is sufficient to support the monthly  interest   cost of the   mortgage payments using an interest coverage ratio (ICR) test; and/or  (b)   i f firms are taking account of personal income as a means for the borrower to support the  interest and capital (if applicable)   monthly mortgage payments, whether that income, in  addition to any income derived from the property, is sufficient to support the mortgage  payments using an income affordability test.  2.2   Firms should not base their assessment of affordability on the equity in the property which  is used as security under the buy - to - let mortgage contract, or take account of a future increase  in property prices.  Interest coverage ratio (ICR) calculation  2.3   The PRA expects firms to define the ICR as the ratio of the expected monthly rental  income from the buy - to - let property to the monthly interest payments which take into  account likely future interest rate increases as set out in paragraphs   2.1 1   to 2.17.  2.4   When   assessing   the ir   minimum ICR threshold, firms should take into account rental  demand and typical rent levels within the property’s locale. Expected rental income should be  verified by a suitably qualified valuer   who is independent of the   borrower , automated  valuation models or evidence of an existing rental agreement , subject to appropriate policies,  controls and risk management .  2.5   Firms can use a variety of data and information to determine the minimum ICR threshold,  including portfolio level   data and data based on models.   When   determining   the minimum ICR  threshold, consideration should be given to the following costs   where the borrower is  responsible for payment: management and letting fees, council tax, service charge, insurance,  repairs, voids, utilities, gas and electrical certificates, licence fee, ground rent and any other  costs associated with renting out the pro perty   irrespective of whether the borrower is an  individual or a company .  2.6   The PRA also expects firms to take into account any tax liability that is associated with the  property. For the avoidance of doubt, this should include mortgage interest tax relief.   Firms  may make a simplifying assumption that all borrowers are subject to higher rate   tax,   but this This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024   7  may result in firms declining   otherwise eligible borrowers.   Capital gains tax does not need to  be included in the assessment of affordability.  2.7   The current industry standard is to set the minimum ICR threshold at 125%. The PRA does  not expect these proposals to reduce minimum ICR thresholds and furthermore, some of the  factors above may lead to higher minimum ICR thresholds.  Income affordability test  2.8   Firms may use personal income as a means for the borrower to   supplement   the rent  within their affordability test.  2.9   If firms use personal income as a means for the borrower to   supplement   the rent, the PRA  expects firms to conduct a detailed affordability assessment of the borrower taking into  account the following :  (a)   Income :  (i)   Examples of sources of personal income include employment income, rental income  (from all of the borrower’s properties), pensions, savings and investments.  (ii)   Personal income should be net of income tax, national insurance payments and any  tax liability that is associated with financing the property as referred to in paragraph  2.6.  (iii)   Firms should assess any rental income by taking into account rental demand and  typical rent levels within the property’s locale. Expected rental income should be  verified by a suitably qualified valuer   who is independent of the   borrower , automated  valuation models or evidence of an existing rental agreement , subject to appropriate  policies, controls and risk management .  (iv)   If a firm is aware that there is likely to be a future change in the income of the  borrower during the term of the buy - to - let mortgage contract, such as retirement,  the firm should take this into account.  (v)   For   ‘ high net worth   borrowers ’   firms may use the borrower’s wealth in assessing the  affordability for the buy - to - let mortgage contract   (for the purposes of this   SS   ‘high net  worth borrower’ means a borrower   with an annual net income of no less than  £300,000 ,   or net assets of no less than £3,000,000 , or whose obligations are  guaranteed by a person with an income or assets of such amount ) .  (vi)   Firms should obtain evidence of the income   or   wealth   of the borrower using  appropriate methods of validation.  (b)   Credit commitments :  (i)   Examples of credit commitments include   mortgages (from all of the borrower’s  properties), loans, motor finance and credit cards   which will continue after the buy -  to - let mortgage contract is entered into .  (ii)   Firms should stress mortgage payments in line with the guidance   and / or   rules set by  the FCA, PRA and the Financial Policy Committee   (FPC) . This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

8   Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024  (iii)   Firms should obtain evidence of the borrower’s credit commitments, for example by  making a credit reference agency search or checking credit card or bank statements.  (c)   Essential expenditure and living costs :  (i)   Examples of essential expenditure related to the borrower are food, utilities,  telephone, council tax, buildings insurance, ground rent and service charge for  leasehold properties, essential travel and childcare.  (ii)   Examples of essential expenditure related to the borrower’s rental properties include  management and letting fees, council tax, service charge, insurance, repairs, voids,  utilities, gas and electrical certificates, licence fee and ground rent.  (iii)   Living costs are expenditure which is hard to reduce and gives a basic quality of life  (beyond the absolute essential expenditure in (i)), such as clothing, household goods  and repairs, personal goods and basic recreation.  (iv)   In taking account of essential expenditure and living costs, t he PRA expects   firms to  either obtain details of the actual expenditure from the borrower, or to use statistical  or other modelled data   appropriate to the composition of the borrower's household,  including the borrower, dependent children and other dependents living in the  household.  (d)   Other committed expenditure :   e xamples of committed expenditure are school fees, child  and/or spousal maintenance costs   which will continue after the buy - to - let mortgage  contract is entered into .  2.10   Firms should put in place, and operate in accordance with, a written policy detailing how  income and expenditure is to be assessed.  Interest rate affordability stress test  2.11   When assessing affordability in respect of a potential borrower, firms should take  account of likely future interest rate increases on affordability.  2.12   In taking account of likely future interest rate increases for the purposes of its  assessment of whether the borrower will be able to pay the sums due, the firm should  consider the likely future interest rates over a minimum period of five years from the e xpected  start of the term of the buy - to - let mortgage contract, unless the interest rate is fixed   or  capped   for a period of five years or more from that time, or for the duration of the buy - to - let  mortgage contract if less than five years.   The PRA   also   expe cts firms to consider the borrower’s  refinancing risk at the end of the fixed or capped rate period.  2.13   In particular, in coming to a view of likely future interest rates, the PRA expects firms to  have regard to:  (a)   market expectations;  (b)   a   minimum increase of 2 percentage points in buy - to - let mortgage interest rates ; 1  1   Buy - to - let mortgage interest rates can refer to either origination rates or reversionary rates. The PRA is not prescribing a  specific interest rate, but lenders should be able to justify the approach taken for the purposes of the affordability test. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024   9  (c)   any prevailing   FPC   recommendation or direction on the appropriate interest rate stress  tests for buy - to - let lending;   and  (d)   firms   should   also   be able to justify the basis it   uses by reference to (a), (b) and (c).  2.14   Even if the interest rate determined in paragraph 2.1 3   indicates that the borrower’s  interest rate will be less than 5.5% during the first   five   years of the buy - to - let mortgage  contract, the firm should assume a minimum borrower interest rate of 5.5%.  2.15   An example of market expectations is the forward   sterling   rate published on the Bank of  England website. 1   A firm should not rely only on its own forecasts. A firm should not link its  determination to market expectations without considering the likely effect of rate changes in  accordance with the market expectations on the specific buy - to - let mortgage contract   in  question.  2.16   If firms   expect   increases in rental income   will   partially   mitigate   likely future increases   in  interest rates ,   this may be taken into account when   assessing   affordability   however, the  assumption for increases in rental income should not exceed 2%, in line with   the  Government’s inflation target, as measured by the 12 - month increase in the Consumer Prices  Index (CPI).  2.17   Firms should put in place, and operate in accordance with, a written policy detailing how  future interest rates are to be taken into account when assessing affordability.  Portfolio landlords  3.1   In addition to the affordability testing outlined in   Chapter   2, t he PRA expects firms  undertaking buy - to - let lending to have regard to   its   potential   business character istics . The PRA  considers that borrowers with four or more   distinct   mortgaged buy - to - let properties 2 , either  together or   separately, in aggregate,   should be treated as ‘ p ortfolio   landlords’.  3.2   The PRA expects firms to recognise that existing experience and skills acquired in buy - to -  let lending do not automatically translate into equivalent skills when assessing   p ortfolio  landlords. Lending to   p ortfolio landlords is inherently more complex given the quantum of  debt in aggregate, the cash flows and costs arising from multiple tenancies and potential risks  of property and/or geographical concentrations.  3.3   These complexities mean that a specialist underwriting approach is appropriate. Firms ’  underwriting process for   p ortfolio landlords should   take a proportionate approach based on  their knowledge of the borrower, their portfolio and alternative sources of income they have .  Examples of   additional   information firms may request from the borrower are as follows:  (a)   the borrower’s experience in the buy - to - let market and their full portfolio of properties  and outstanding mortgages;  (b)   the assets and liabilities of the borrower, including any tax liability referred to in  paragraph 2.6;  1   Available at   www.bankofengland.co.uk/statistics/pages/yieldcurve/default.aspx .  2   Firms may   use their judgement when determining how to verify the number of mortgaged buy - to - let properties the  borrower   has . The PRA recognises that there are a variety of suitable ways to do   this including using credit bureau data. This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

10   Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024  (c)   the merits of any new lending in the context of the borrower’s existing buy - to - let portfolio  together with their business plan; and  (d)   historical and future expected cash flows associated with all of the borrower’s properties.  3.4   Firms should put in place, and operate in accordance with, a written policy detailing the  differentiation between underwriting standards for buy - to - let lending and lending to   p ortfolio  landlords.  Risk management  4.1   The PRA expects firms to have adequate risk management and controls specifically for  buy - to - let lending, including:  (a)   risk appetite limits on the flow and stock of buy - to - let lending, including ICR and loan - to -  value (LTV) limits;  (b)   appropriate oversight and monitoring of the risk profile of lending introduced by third  party intermediaries;  (c)   monitoring of portfolio concentrations and   high - risk   segments; and  (d)   controls to ensure that any fraud risks associated with buy - to - let lending are effectively  managed.  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted]  [Deleted] This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded

Underwriting standards for buy - to - let mortgage contracts   September   2024   11  Annex: SS 13 /1 6   updates  SS13/16 was first published in September 2016. This annex details changes made to  this SS following its initial publication.  Septem ber   2024  Septem ber  This SS was updated following publication of   PS 9 /24   –   Implementation of   the   Basel 3.1  standards near - final part 2. 1   T he PRA has   deleted   Paragraph 1.2(b),   Chapter 5 ‘The SME  supporting factor in relation buy - to - let mortgages’   and   C hapter 6 ‘Implementation  timescales’.  These amendments are effective from 1 J anuary   202 6 .  1   http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential - regulation/publication/2024/ september /implementation - of - the - basel - 3 - 1 -  standards - near - final - policy - statement - part - 2 This SS has been superseded. Please see: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/prudential-regulation/publication/2016/underwriting-standards-for-buy-to-let-mortgage-contracts-ss Superseded


